{'Year': '2011', 'Month': 'Aug'}
Pharmacogenomics in ophthalmology.
Inter-individual variation in drug response and adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are well known in medicine. This individual variation in drug response could be at least, in part, due to genetic diversity among individuals. Although substantial studies that connect genetic variants to inter-individual variation in drug response have been documented in several diseases such as cancer and heart diseases, such studies are slowly progressing in ophthalmology. In recent years, advancement in technologies has led to the identification of genes associated with several eye disorders. At the same time, some small-scale studies have demonstrated the association of various genotypes or haplotypes with response to drug therapies. However, its integration into clinical practice in ophthalmology is not possible at present. This is because there are many challenging questions that remain to be addressed. For instance, in the case of complex disorders a single gene study is not enough. Multiple genes, environmental factors, multiple single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), and rare or low frequency variants may contribute to the disease and they must be considered. The functional aspects of many genetic variants are not known. This raises questions of their biological importance and their clinical usefulness. In addition, there are legal, ethical, and social issues that need to be regulated. Moreover, physicians and patients must be educated about the limitation and sensitivity of genetic testing. At present pharmacogenetic studies in ophthalmology are still in their infancy and do not suggest that a pharmacogenetic basis of drug development in ophthalmology is a concept that can yield immediate results, but can become a reality in the future. In this article an attempt has been made to summarize some of the recent small-scale pharmacogenetic studies on two major eye disorders, age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and glaucoma.