{'Year': '2011', 'Season': 'Jul-Sep'}
Pharmacogenomics in pulmonary arterial hypertension: Toward a mechanistic, target-based approach to therapy.
Pharmacogenomics is the study of how genetic variations influence the response to drugs, by correlating gene expression with the drug's efficacy and toxicity. This concept has recently been successfully applied in oncology. To test its applicability to PAH, we examined two experimental models of the disease: mice with deletion of the Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide gene (VIP(- /-)); and rats injected with monocrotaline (MCT). Since the two models express comparable phenotypic features, we analyzed their particular gene alterations, with special reference to genes related to pulmonary vasoconstriction, vascular remodeling, and inflammation. We then compared the phenotypic and genotypic responses in each model to treatment with the same drug, VIP. In untreated VIP(-/-) mice there was over-expression of almost all genes promoting vasoconstriction/ proliferation, as well as inflammation, and under-expression of all vasodilator/anti-proliferative genes. As expected, treatment with VIP fully corrected both the key PAH features, and all gene expression alterations. MCT-treated rats showed two distinct sets of alterations. One, similar to that in VIP(- /-) mice, i.e., tended to promote vascular remodeling and inflammation, e.g., up-regulation of myosin polypeptides, procollagen, and some inflammatory genes. The other was a set of opposite alterations that suggested an effort to modulate the PAH, e.g., up-regulation of the VIP and NOS3 genes. In this model, VIP treatment failed to correct many of the genotypic abnormalities, and, in parallel, incompletely corrected the phenotypic changes as well. This preliminary proof-of-concept study demonstrates the importance of genomic information in determining therapeutic outcome, and thus in selecting personalized therapy. Full validation of the merits of pharmacogenomics must await studies of lungs from patients with different forms of PAH.