{'Year': '2016', 'Month': 'Jan'}
The Role of Pharmacogenetics in Atrial Fibrillation Therapeutics: Is Personalized Therapy in Sight?
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia worldwide requiring therapy. Despite recent advances in catheter-based and surgical therapy, antiarrhythmic drugs (AADs) remain the mainstay of treatment for symptomatic AF. However, response in individual patients is highly variable with over half the patients treated with rhythm control therapy experiencing recurrence of AF within a year. Contemporary AADs used to suppress AF are incompletely and unpredictably effective and associated with significant risks of proarrhythmia and noncardiac toxicities. Furthermore, this "one-size" fits all strategy for selecting antiarrhythmics is based largely on minimizing risk of adverse effects rather than on the likelihood of suppressing AF. The limited success of rhythm control therapy is in part due to heterogeneity of the underlying substrate, interindividual differences in disease mechanisms, and our inability to predict response to AADs in individual patients. Genetic studies of AF over the past decade have revealed that susceptibility to and response to therapy for AF is modulated by the underlying genetic substrate. However, the bedside application of these new discoveries to the management of AF patients has thus far been disappointing. This may in part be related to our limited understanding about genetic predictors of drug response in general, the challenges associated with determining efficacy of response to AADs, and lack of randomized genotype-directed clinical trials. Nonetheless, recent studies have shown that common AF susceptibility risk alleles at the chromosome 4q25 locus modulated response to AADs, electrical cardioversion, and ablation therapy. This monograph discusses how genetic approaches to AF have not only provided important insights into underlying mechanisms but also identified AF subtypes that can be better targeted with more mechanism-based "personalized" therapy.