{'Year': '2018', 'Month': 'Mar', 'Day': '05'}
Role of Hepatic Organic Anion Transporter 2 in the Pharmacokinetics of R- and S-Warfarin: In Vitro Studies and Mechanistic Evaluation.
Interindividual variability in warfarin dose requirement demands personalized medicine approaches to balance its therapeutic benefits (anticoagulation) and bleeding risk. Cytochrome P450 2C9 ( CYP2C9) genotype-guided warfarin dosing is recommended in the clinic, given the more potent S-warfarin is primarily metabolized by CYP2C9. However, only about 20-30% of interpatient variability in S-warfarin clearance is associated with CYP2C9 genotype. We evaluated the role of hepatic uptake in the clearance of R- and S-warfarin. Using stably transfected HEK293 cells, both enantiomers were found to be substrates of organic anion transporter (OAT)2 with a Michaelis-Menten constant ( K<sub>m</sub>) of ∼7-12 μM but did not show substrate affinity for other major hepatic uptake transporters. Uptake of both enantiomers by primary human hepatocytes was saturable ( K<sub>m</sub> ≈ 7-10 μM) and inhibitable by OAT2 inhibitors (e.g., ketoprofen) but not by OATP1B1/1B3 inhibitors (e.g., cyclosporine). To further evaluate the potential role of hepatic uptake in R- and S-warfarin pharmacokinetics, mechanistic modeling and simulations were conducted. A "bottom-up" PBPK model, developed assuming that OAT2-CYPs interplay, well recovered clinical pharmacokinetics, drug-drug interactions, and CYP2C9 pharmacogenomics of R- and S-warfarin. Clinical data were not available to directly verify the impact of OAT2 modulation on warfarin pharmacokinetics; however, the bottom-up PBPK model simulations suggested a proportional change in clearance of both warfarin enantiomers with inhibition of OAT2 activity. These results suggest that variable hepatic OAT2 function, in conjunction with CYP2C, may contribute to the high population variability in warfarin pharmacokinetics and possibly anticoagulation end points and thus warrant further clinical investigation.