{'Year': '2018', 'Month': 'Apr'}
Toward Decentralized Agrigenomic Surveillance? A Polymerase Chain Reaction-Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism Approach for Adaptable and Rapid Detection of User-Defined Fungal Pathogens in Potato Crops.
Agrigenomics is one of the emerging focus areas for omics sciences. Yet, agrigenomics differs from medical omics applications such as pharmacogenomics and precision medicine, by virtue of vastly distributed geography of applications at the intersection of agriculture, nutrition, and genomics research streams. Crucially, agrigenomics can address diagnostics and safety surveillance needs in remote and rural farming communities or decentralized food, crop, and environmental monitoring programs for prompt, selective, and differential identification of pathogens. A case in point is the potato crop that serves as a fundamental nutritional source worldwide. Decentralized potato crop and plant protection facilities are pivotal to minimize unnecessary, preemptive use of broad-spectrum fungicides, thus helping to curtail the costs, environmental burden, and the development of resistance in opportunistic human pathogenic fungi. We report here a polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism approach that is sensitive and adaptable in detection and broad identification of fungal pathogens in potato crops, with a view to future decentralized agrigenomic surveillance programs. Notably, the fingerprinting patterns obtained by the method fully differentiated 12 fungal species examined in silico, with 10 of them also tested in vitro. The method can be scaled up through improvements in electrophoresis and enzyme panel for adaption to other crops and/or pathogens. We suggest that decentralized and integrated agrosurveillance programs and translational agrigenomic programs can inform future innovations in multidomain biosecurity, particularly across omics applications from agriculture and nutrition to clinical medicine and environmental biosafety.