{'Year': '2019', 'Month': 'Jul'}
A Genome-Wide Association Study of Bisphosphonate-Associated Atypical Femoral Fracture.
Atypical femoral fracture is a well-documented adverse reaction to bisphosphonates. It is strongly related to duration of bisphosphonate use, and the risk declines rapidly after drug withdrawal. The mechanism behind bisphosphonate-associated atypical femoral fracture is unclear, but a genetic predisposition has been suggested. With the aim to identify common genetic variants that could be used for preemptive genetic testing, we performed a genome-wide association study. Cases were recruited mainly through reports of adverse drug reactions sent to the Swedish Medical Products Agency on a nation-wide basis. We compared atypical femoral fracture cases (n = 51) with population-based controls (n = 4891), and to reduce the possibility of confounding by indication, we also compared with bisphosphonate-treated controls without a current diagnosis of cancer (n = 324). The total number of single-nucleotide polymorphisms after imputation was 7,585,874. A genome-wide significance threshold of p < 5 × 10<sup>-8</sup> was used to correct for multiple testing. In addition, we performed candidate gene analyses for a panel of 29 genes previously implicated in atypical femoral fractures (significance threshold of p < 5.7 × 10<sup>-6</sup>). Compared with population controls, bisphosphonate-associated atypical femoral fracture was associated with four isolated, uncommon single-nucleotide polymorphisms. When cases were compared with bisphosphonate-treated controls, no statistically significant genome-wide association remained. We conclude that the detected associations were either false positives or related to the underlying disease, i.e., treatment indication. Furthermore, there was no significant association with single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the 29 candidate genes. In conclusion, this study found no evidence of a common genetic predisposition for bisphosphonate-associated atypical femoral fracture. Further studies of larger sample size to identify possible weakly associated genetic traits, as well as whole exome or whole-genome sequencing studies to identify possible rare genetic variation conferring a risk are warranted.