{'Year': '2019'}
Precision Medicine in Lymphoma by Innovative Instrumental Platforms.
In recent years, many efforts have been addressed to the growing field of precision medicine in order to offer individual treatments to every patient on the basis of his/her genetic background. Formerly adopted to achieve new disease classifications as it is still done, innovative platforms, such as microarrays, genome-wide association studies (GWAS), and next generation sequencing (NGS), have made the progress in pharmacogenetics faster and cheaper than previously expected. Several studies in lymphoma patients have demonstrated that these platforms can be used to identify biomarkers predictive of drug efficacy and tolerability, discovering new possible druggable proteins. Indeed, GWAS and NGS allow the investigation of the human genome, finding interesting associations with putative or unexpected targets, which in turns may represent new therapeutic possibilities. Importantly, some objective difficulties have initially hampered the translation of findings in clinical routines, such as the poor quantity/quality of genetic material or the paucity of targets that could be investigated at the same time. At present, some of these technical issues have been partially solved. Furthermore, these analyses are growing in parallel with the development of bioinformatics and its capabilities to manage and analyze big data. Because of pharmacogenetic markers may become important during drug development, regulatory authorities (i.e., EMA, FDA) are preparing <i>ad hoc</i> guidelines and recommendations to include the evaluation of genetic markers in clinical trials. Concerns and difficulties for the adoption of genetic testing in routine are still present, as well as affordability, reliability and the poor confidence of some patients for these tests. However, genetic testing based on predictive markers may offers many advantages to caregivers and patients and their introduction in clinical routine is justified.