{'Year': '2020', 'Month': 'Dec'}
Determinants of stakeholders' intention to adopt pharmacogenomic.
Pharmacogenomics (PGx) testing, which aims to identify the genes that affect our responses to drugs, has been favoured by healthcare professionals as a means of maximising drug efficacy and improving the safety and cost-effectiveness of healthcare. Support from the public is needed to determine the successful development of this technology and its implementation in society. Therefore, the objective of this paper was to analyse factors that influence stakeholders' intentions to adopt pharmacogenomic testing in Malaysia. A validated instrument was administered through face-to-face interviews with a total of 421 adult respondents who were stratified according to 2 stakeholder groups: healthcare providers (n = 221) and patients/family members (n = 200). The data were then analysed using SPSS® version 24 software and the advanced multivariate statistical approach of Partial Least Square (PLS) path modelling in order to analyse the complex relationships among variables. Results of the studies indicated that the Malaysian stakeholders had a high amount of trust in the key players (mean score of 5.31), perceived high benefits (mean score of 5.53) and claimed to have high intentions of adopting PGx (mean score of 5.39). The majority of the predictors have significant direct relationships with the intention to adopt PGx, with the exception of moral concerns. Perceived benefits appeared to be the most important direct predictor of the intention to adopt PGx testing (ß = 0.371, P < 0.001) followed by trust in the key players (ß = 0.312, P < 0.001), engagement (ß = 0.272, P < 0.001) and religiosity (ß = 0.133, P < 0.01). In addition, perceived risks also had a direct negative association with the intention to adopt PGx (ß = -0.096, P < 0.05). At the same time, the perceived benefits also served as a mediator for all the other factors except risk. The results provide insights into the multidimensional nature of the determinants of the intention to adopt PGx testing in Malaysia. Although the results showed that the stakeholders in Malaysia were very positive towards PGx testing, they were also cautious about it. The predictors identified in this study can serve as indicators for social acceptance of PGx testing to facilitate the clinical research and implementation of PGx.