{'Year': '2020'}
Computational Prediction of Drug Responses in Cancer Cell Lines From Cancer Omics and Detection of Drug Effectiveness Related Methylation Sites.
Accurately predicting the response of a cancer patient to a therapeutic agent remains an important challenge in precision medicine. With the rise of data science, researchers have applied computational models to study the drug inhibition effects on cancers based on cancer genomics and transcriptomics. Moreover, a common epigenetic modification, DNA methylation, has been related to the occurrence and development of cancer, as well as drug effectiveness. Therefore, it is helpful for improvement of drug response prediction through exploring the relationship between DNA methylation and drug effectiveness. Here, we proposed a computational model to predict drug responses in cancers through integration of cancer genomics, transcriptomics, epigenomics, and compound chemical properties. Meanwhile, we applied a regularized regression model (Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator, lasso) to detect the methylation sites that were closely related to drug effectiveness. The prediction models were trained on a well-known pharmacogenomics data resource, Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer (GDSC). The cross-validation indicates that the performance of the prediction model using DNA methylation is comparable to that of using other cancer omics, including oncogene mutation and gene expression data. It indicates the important role of DNA methylation in prediction of drug responses. Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) and Transcriptional Regulatory Relationships Unraveled by Sentence-based Text mining (TRRUST2) database analyses suggest that the methylation sites associated with drug effectiveness are mainly located in the transcription factor (TF) binding region. Therefore, we hypothesized that the sensitivity of cancer cells to drugs could be regulated by changing the methylation modification of TF binding region. In conclusion, we confirmed the important role of DNA methylation in prediction of drug responses, and provided some methylation sites that closely related to the drug effectiveness, which may be a great regulatory target for improvement of drug treatment effects on cancer patients.