{'Year': '2020', 'Month': 'Nov', 'Day': '09'}
Knowledge, Attitudes, and Perceived Barriers toward Genetic Testing and Pharmacogenomics among Healthcare Workers in the United Arab Emirates: A Cross-Sectional Study.
In order to successfully translate the scientific models of genetic testing and pharmacogenomics into clinical practice, empowering healthcare workers with the right knowledge and functional understanding on the subject is essential. Limited research in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have assessed healthcare worker stances towards genomics. This study aimed to assess healthcare workers' knowledge and attitudes on genetic testing. A cross-sectional study was conducted among healthcare workers practicing in either public or private hospitals or clinics as pharmacists, nurses, physicians, managers, and allied health. Participants were recruited randomly and via snowball techniques. Surveys were collected between April and September 2019; out of 552 respondents, 63.4% were female, the mean age was 38 (±9.6) years old. The mean knowledge score was 5.2 (±2.3) out of nine, which shows a fair level of knowledge. The scores of respondents of pharmacy were 5.1 (±2.5), medicine 6.0 (±2.0), and nursing 4.8 (±2.1). All participants exhibited a fair knowledge level about genetic testing and pharmacogenomics. Of the respondents, 91.9% showed a positive attitude regarding availability of genetic testing. The top identified barrier to implementation was the cost of testing (62%), followed by lack of training or education and insurance coverage (57.8% and 57.2%, respectively). Building upon the positive attitudes and tackling the barriers and challenges will pave the road for full implementation of genetic testing and pharmacogenomics in the UAE. We recommend empowering healthcare workers by improving needed and tailored competencies related to their area of practice. We strongly urge the stakeholders to streamline and benchmark the workflow, algorithm, and guidelines to standardize the health and electronic system. Lastly, we advocate utilizing technology and electronic decision support as well as the translational report to back up healthcare workers in the UAE.