{'Year': '2021', 'Month': 'Aug', 'Day': '14'}
The Future of Analytical and Interpretative Toxicology: Where are We Going and How Do We Get There?
(Forensic) toxicology has faced many challenges, both analytically and interpretatively, especially in relation to an increase in potential drugs of interest. Analytical toxicology and its application to medicine and forensic science have progressed rapidly within the past centuries. Technological innovations have enabled detection of more substances with increasing sensitivity in a variety of matrices. Our understanding of the effects (both intended and unintended) have also increased along with determination and degree of toxicity. However, it is clear there is even more to understand and consider. The analytical focus has been on typical matrices such as blood and urine but other matrices could further increase our understanding, especially in postmortem (PM) situations. Within this context, the role of PM changes and potential redistribution of drugs requires further research and identification of markers of its occurrence and extent. Whilst instrumentation has improved, in the future, nanotechnology may play a role in selective and sensitive analysis as well as bioassays. Toxicologists often only have an advisory impact on pre-analytical and pre-interpretative considerations. The collection of appropriate samples at the right time in an appropriate way as well as obtaining sufficient circumstance background is paramount in ensuring an effective analytical strategy to provide useful results that can be interpreted within context. Nevertheless, key interpretative considerations such as pharmacogenomics and drug-drug interactions as well as determination of tolerance remain and in the future, analytical confirmation of an individual's metabolic profile may support a personalized medicine and judicial approach. This should be supported by the compilation and appropriate application of drug data pursuant to the situation. Specifically, in PM circumstances, data pertaining to where a drug was not/may have been/was contributory will be beneficial with associated pathological considerations. This article describes the challenges faced within toxicology and discusses progress to a future where they are being addressed.