{'Year': '2021', 'Month': 'Mar'}
Attitudes and Awareness Toward Pharmacogenomics and Personalized Medicine Adoption Among Health Sciences Trainees: Experience from Greece and Lessons for Europe.
The increasing incorporation of genomics in clinical practice underscores the need to improve genomics knowledge and familiarity among future health care providers. To this end, it is important to consider both the "push" and the "pull" factors that shape or determine the transition of new personalized medicine (PM) discoveries to clinical practice. One of the pull factors involves the attitudes, values, and education of the user communities such as patients, physicians, and scientists who are poised to use the PM diagnostics. Among the push factors are often health scientists who contribute to PM science and development efforts. Seen in this light, health sciences trainees represent both the push and pull factors, not to mention the next generation of stakeholders and innovation actors who will make PM a reality in mainstream medical practice in the future. Τhis study aimed at investigating and comparing awareness and attitudes (ethical and other) on pharmacogenomics (PGx) and PM adoption among undergraduate students from the school of health sciences and other students. A convenience sample was used in this survey in two groups of students: 205 students from the School of Health Sciences and 141 students from other schools (e.g., biology, computer engineering, and business administration) of the University of Patras, Greece, and mostly at undergraduate education level. We observed that despite the relatively low level of awareness about genetics, PGx, and relevant notions, both groups of students were very optimistic about the genetic testing usefulness and professed their positive anticipations about PGx on disease management. Thus, health sciences students and those in other faculties appeared to be avid proponents of genetics testing and in favor of public endorsement of the concepts of individually tailored medicine. This case study in Greece is one of the first studies on perceptions and attitudes toward PGx testing and PM in Southern Europe. Of importance, the study informs the prospects and challenges on the push and pull factors of PM innovation while offering potential lessons for future PM curriculum needs in health sciences in other countries in Europe.