{'Year': '2021', 'Month': 'May'}
Discrepancies and similarities in the genome-informed guidance for psychiatric disorders amongst different regulatory bodies and research consortia using next generation sequencing-based clinical pharmacogenomics data.
Undoubtedly, pharmacogenomics (PGx) aims in optimizing drug treatment responses whilst also improving the patients' quality of life, either via a reduction of adverse drug reactions and/or an enhancement of drug treatment efficacy. To achieve this, PGx guidance is provided by the two major regulatory bodies in a worldwide level, specifically the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Medicine Agency (EMA), and occasionally some research consortia, such as the Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) or the Dutch Pharmacogenomics Working Group (DPWG). However, so far, there is a limited number of studies focusing on the delineation of the similarities and more importantly, the discrepancies in the PGx guidance by the different regulatory bodies and consortia. Herein, we use real-life clinical PGx data to highlight such discrepancies and similarities for genome-guided interventions in psychiatric disorders, thus demonstrating the need for harmonization of the guidelines and recommendations. More precisely, we used the PharmCAT genome-informed drug treatment reports from 304 Greek individuals with psychiatric disorders in order to emphasize on the discrepancies in the PGx guidance/guidelines between FDA vs EMA and CPIC vs DPWG, respectively. For example, CYP2D6-pimozide pair is characterized as 'Testing Required' according to FDA and is accompanied by a DPWG PGx guideline, whilst no EMA or CPIC PGx guidance is found for this drug-gene pair. Moreover, discrepancies are observed regarding the type of PGx guidance for CYP2C19-doxepin pair, with 89 individuals from our study cohort requiring a dose prescribing change based on FDA, whilst only 5 individuals have to receive genome-guided treatment adjustment according to CPIC. To our knowledge, this is the first study, in which discrepancies regarding the type of PGx guidance and the number of actionable drug-gene pairs amongst FDA and EMA, as well as CPIC and DPWG, are brought to light with an emphasis on psychiatric disorders.