{'Year': '2021'}
Case Report of Novel Genetic Variant in KCNT1 Channel and Pharmacological Treatment With Quinidine. Precision Medicine in Refractory Epilepsy.
<b>Case introduction:</b> In this work we present a female infant patient with epilepsy of infancy with migrating focal seizures (EIMFS). Although many pharmacological schemes were attempted, she developed an encephalopathy with poor response to antiepileptic drugs and progressive cerebral dysfunction. <b>Aim:</b> To present the pharmacological response and therapeutic drug monitoring of a paediatric patient with a severe encephalopathy carrying a genetic variant in KCNT1 gene, whose identification led to include quinidine (QND) in the treatment regimen as an antiepileptic drug. <b>Case report:</b> Patient showed slow rhythmic activity (theta range) over left occipital areas with temporal propagation and oculo-clonic focal seizures and without tonic spasms three months after birth. At the age of 18 months showed severe impairments of motor and intellectual function with poor eye contact. When the patient was 4 years old, a genetic variant in the exon 24 of the KCNT1 gene was found. This led to the diagnosis of EIMFS. Due to antiepileptic treatment failed to control seizures, QND a KCNT1 blocker, was introduced as a therapeutic alternative besides topiramate (200 mg/day) and nitrazepam (2 mg/day). Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of QND plasma levels needed to be implemented to establish individual therapeutic range and avoid toxicity. TDM for dose adjustment was performed to establish the individual therapeutic range of the patient. Seizures were under control with QND levels above 1.5 mcg/ml (65-70 mg/kg q. i.d). In addition, QND levels higher than 4.0 mcg/ml, were related to higher risk of suffering arrhythmia due to prolongation of QT segment. Despite initial intention to withdrawal topiramate completely, QND was no longer effective by itself and failed to maintain seizures control. Due to this necessary interaction between quinidine and topiramate, topiramate was stablished in a maintenance dose of 40 mg/day. <b>Conclusion:</b> The implementation of Precision Medicine by using tools such as Next Generation Sequencing and TDM led to diagnose and select a targeted therapy for the treatment of a KCNT1-related epilepsy in a patient presented with EIMFS in early infancy and poor response to antiepileptic drugs. QND an old antiarrhythmic drug, due to its activity as KCNT1 channel blocker, associated to topiramate resulted in seizures control. Due to high variability observed in QND levels, TDM and pharmacokinetic characterization allowed to optimize drug regimen to maintain QND concentration between the individual therapeutic range and diminish toxicity.