{'Year': '2021', 'Month': 'Dec'}
[Effect of "Hedyotis Diffusae Herba-Smilacis Glabrae Rhizoma" in treatment of lung adenocarcinoma based on network pharmacology].
To explore the mechanism of Hedyotis Diffusae Herba-Smilacis Glabrae Rhizoma(HDH-SGR) in treating lung adenocarcinoma based on big data bioinformatics combined with network pharmacology analysis and molecular docking technology. The chemical components and potential therapeutic targets of HDH-SGR were obtained from Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform(TCMSP). Lung adenocarcinoma-related genes were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas(TCGA), Therapeutic Target Database(TTD), Pharmacogenetics and Pharmacogenomics Knowledge Base(PharmGKB), Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man(OMIM), DrugBank, and GeneCards. &quot;Drug component-target&quot; network was constructed using Cytoscape to screen out key compounds. STRING was used to build protein-protein interaction(PPI) network and core targets were screened out by Cytoscape-CytoNCA topology analysis. Gene Ontology(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) analyses of target genes were performed by R-clusterProfiler. Finally, key compounds were docked to core target genes using AutoDock. The results showed that 22 active compounds and 499 potential therapeutic targets were obtained from HDH-SGR. A total of 14 332 lung adenocarcinoma-related targets were screened out through six data platforms, including 182 common targets. Fifteen core targets were screened out from the PPI network. GO and KEGG analyses revealed significant enrichment of relevant target genes in various biological processes, cellular functions(e.g., response to lipopolysaccharide, nuclear receptor activity, and ligand-activated transcription factor activity) and close relationship between target genes and non-small cell lung cancer signaling pathways. Based on the results of molecular docking validation, diosgenin, quercetin, naringenin, taxifolin, 2-methoxy-3-methyl-9,10-anthraquinone, stigmasterol, and β-sitosterol were able to bind tightly to the core targets. HDH-SGR can intervene in lung adenocarcinoma through multiple targets and signaling pathways, such as non-small cell lung cancer signaling pathways. The binding of active components in Chinese medicine to key targets is presumedly one of the mechanisms that produce therapeutic effects.