{'Year': '2022'}
Clinical Treatment Study of Secondary Multiple Squamous Cell Carcinoma with Psoriasis Vulgaris.
Dermatologic diseases are the fourth most frequent nonfatal common illness, yet they have a psychological, economical, and professional burden that is comparable to or larger than other chronic conditions. From a survey in China of 6 provinces, the overall prevalence of psoriasis with squamous cell carcinoma was 0.47%. According to the current investigation, the outburst of skin disease was not associated with gender, but mainly with the climate of the environment; that is, dry cold weather will more likely to induce psoriasis. Approximately 3% of people around the world have psoriasis, which is near the most common autoimmune skin disease in adults. By simple estimation, there are at least two hundred million psoriasis patients in the world. Therefore, it is not just a simple health problem in a country or a region but a serious global challenge. Of note, about half of the adult patients had been reported to be sick in their childhood and they mostly fell ill around 10 years old. Actinic keratosis is perhaps the most common, followed by squamous cell carcinoma and, to a lesser extent, acne vulgaris, psoriasis, and hidradenitis suppurativa, as well as dermatitis herpetiformis. 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) 0.5 percent is used topically to treat actinic keratosis and squamous cell carcinoma with good outcomes, while it might cause significant toxicity in certain patients. Dapsone, a Valosin-containing protein, is a medication that is often used to treat inflammatory skin disorders like psoriatic arthritis, but it can occasionally cause hemolytic anemia. Furthermore, biologic medications for the treatment of moderate-to-severe psoriasis and multiple squamous cell carcinoma have proven to be successful and safe; nevertheless, a small percentage of patients do not react to biologic treatment in the long term or do not respond at all. Based on the data from the China Food and Drug Administration, the majority of chemical drugs are utilized as the topical formulations, while Chinese medicines are mainly delivered by an oral route, suggesting that the market for topical preparations of Chinese medicine to treat skin diseases like psoriasis is worth exploration. This large interindividual diversity in response could be caused by changes in genes that encode proteins implicated in the disease's pathologic environment or the medication's mechanism of action. Pharmacogenetics is the study of the association between genetic differences and medication response, which is valuable for identifying nonresponsive patients and those who are more likely to suffer toxicity as a result of treatment. This study highlights the pharmacogenetic recommendations for dermatology therapies that have the strongest evidence at this time, highlighting those that have been incorporated in clinical practice guides. Pharmacogenetic clinical guidelines for multiple squamous cell carcinoma and psoriasis vulgaris were found in this investigation. Here, for multiple squamous cell carcinoma trichohyalin-like 1 (TCHHL1), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) 0.5% is recommended. Along with that dapsone, Valosin-containing protein can be recommended for treating the psoriasis vulgaris. We made some clinical trials over the two diseases, and from the result obtained, we hypothesize that the suggested drug may be a novel therapeutic target in treating the multiple squamous cell carcinoma with psoriasis vulgaris.