{'Year': '2022', 'Month': 'Feb'}
[Mechanism of Carthami Flos and Lepidii Semen drug pair in inhibition of myocardial fibrosis by improving cardiac microenvironment based on network pharmacology and animal experiment].
Previously, Carthami Flos and Lepidii Semen(CF-LS) drug pair has been proved effective in inhibiting myocardial fibrosis(MF) by blunting the activity of cardiac fibroblasts. The present study explored the underlying mechanism of CF-LS in inhibiting MF by improving the cardiac microenvironment based on network pharmacology combined with experimental verification. Active compounds and potential targets of CF-LS were retrieved from Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform(TCMSP), and the potential targets of MF were obtained from GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man(OMIM), and Pharmacogenetics and Pharmacogenomics Knowledge Base(PharmGKB). The &quot;active component-target-MF&quot; network was constructed and analyzed by Cytoscape 3.8.1. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed by STRING. The Gene Ontology(GO) biological process enrichment analysis was performed by CluoGO plug-in. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) signaling pathway enrichment analysis was performed by R 4.0.2 and Funrich. Subsequently, the inhibitory effect of CF-LS on MF was investigated based on angiotensin Ⅱ(Ang Ⅱ)-induced MF rats. RT-PCR and ELISA were used to verify the effect of CF-LS on the targets of signaling pathways related to vascular endothelial cells predicted by the network pharmacology. Thirty-one active components and 204 potential targets of CF-LS, 4 671 MF-related targets, and 174 common targets were obtained. The network analysis showed that the key targets of CF-LS against MF included RAC-alpha serine/threonine-protein kinase(AKT1), transcription factor AP-1(JUN), mitogen-activated protein kinase 1(MAPK1), cellular tumor antigen p53(TP53), transcription factor p65(RELA), and mitogen-activated protein kinase 8(MAPK8). Biological processes mainly involved regulation of blood vessel diameter, regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration, cell death in response to oxidative stress, etc. Advanced glycation end products(AGE)-receptor for advanced glycation end products(RAGE) signaling pathway, phosphoinositide 3-kinase(PI3 K)-serine/threonine protein kinase(AKT) signaling pathway, hypoxia-inducible factor-1(HIF-1) signaling pathway, integrin signaling pathway, transforming growth factor-β(TGF-β) signaling pathway, etc. were involved in signaling pathway enrichment. Literature retrieval confirmed that some of these signaling pathways were closely related to vascular endothelial cells, including AGE-RAGE, PI3 K-AKT, HIF-1α, p53, the transcription factor activator protein-1(AP-1), integrin, p38 MAPK, and TGF-β. Animal experiments showed that CF-LS inhibited MF induced by Ang Ⅱ in rats by suppressing the expression of RAGE, HIF-1α, integrin β6, and TGF-β1. The inhibitory effect of CF-LS on MF has the characteristics of multiple components, multiple targets, and multiple pathways. CF-LS can inhibit MF by regulating the activity of vascular endothelial cells in the cardiac microenvironment.