{'Year': '2022', 'Month': 'Dec'}
Assessing the impact of pre-test education on patient knowledge, perceptions, and expectations of pharmacogenomic testing to guide antidepressant use.
Pharmacogenomic (PGx) testing is an increasingly utilized technology that offers the potential for precision drug selection to treat depression. Though PGx-guided therapy is associated with increased rates of remission of depression symptoms, for many patients, treatment will not change based on PGx testing results. Lack of consensus guidelines for pre-test counseling may hinder the communication of PGx testing limitations, and patients often have high expectations for test outcomes. To explore this issue, we created and evaluated the impact of a pre-test education video for patients with depression. Individuals in the education group (n = 198) viewed this brief video about PGx testing prior to completing a survey that explored knowledge, perception, and expectations of PGx testing developed using a theoretical framework to measure intention to test. Individuals in the survey-only group (n = 189) completed the same survey but were not provided with any PGx educational materials. Analyses demonstrate efficacy of the video in improving knowledge of PGx. The education group also reported more positive attitudes and greater perceived control over pursuing PGx testing compared to the survey-only group. Further analyses identified significant differences in expectations, attitudes, and intention to pursue PGx testing based on number of previous medication trials. Path analyses identified the best model for predicting PGx testing intention, specifically that social norms and ease of testing have a strong positive association, and knowledge has a strong negative association with patients' intentions to test across the full sample, the education group, and the survey-only group. The findings of this study serve as a foundation for future tailored educational initiatives in the PGx testing space.