{'Year': '2022', 'Month': 'Oct', 'Day': '01'}
Metabolic, genetic, and pharmacokinetic parameters for the prediction of olanzapine efficacy.
Clinical use of the a olanzapine has significantly different individual-to-individual outcomes. Accordingly, this study aimed to develop a means of predicting response to olanzapine using a combined approach based on pharmacokinetics, pharmacometabonomics, and genetic polymorphism. The olanzapine pharmacokinetics of 19 healthy volunteers treated with orally disintegrating tablets were determined using high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Metabolic profiling and phenotyping were performed on the blood samples that remained after pharmacokinetic analysis using ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography coupled with high-resolution mass spectrometry. Uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), γ-aminobutyric acid transaminase (GABA-T), and succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) were identified as key genes. The single nucleotide polymorphism genotypes most related to drug metabolism were investigated by polymerase chain reaction and Sanger sequencing. Forty-one metabolites (p < 0.05) are increased or decreased after treatment with olanzapine. Tryptophan metabolism, norepinephrine metabolism, and γ-aminobutyric acid metabolism were identified as being related to the effects of olanzapine. Subjects carrying rs1641031 AC and CC exhibited a 59.2% increase in the mean peak concentration (C<sub>max</sub>) value and a 25.33% decrease in the mean oral clearance rate (CL/F) value, compared to that in subjects with the GABA-T rs1641031 AA genotype (p < 0.05). Moreover, polymorphism of the GABA-T gene has an impact on the metabolism of 5-hydroxytryptamine. Lysophosphatidylethanolamine (0:0/18:3), lysophosphatidylethanolamine (0:0/22:5), and octadecatrienoic acid distinguish subjects with high and low olanzapine drug oral clearance and are thus identified as biomarkers for predicting its efficacy.