{'Year': '2022'}
Current Status and Trends of Research on Anthracycline-Induced Cardiotoxicity from 2002 to 2021: A Twenty-Year Bibliometric and Visualization Analysis.
Anthracyclines constitute the cornerstone of numerous chemotherapy regimens for various cancers. However, the clinical application of anthracyclines is significantly limited to their dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. A comprehensive understanding of the current status of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity is necessary for in-depth research and optimal clinical protocols. Bibliometric analysis is widely applied in depicting development trends and tracking frontiers of a specific field. The present study is aimed at revealing the status and trends of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity during the past two decades by employing bibliometric software including R-bibliometric, VOSviewer, and CiteSpace. A total of 3504 publications concerning anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity from 2002 to 2021 were collected from the Web of Science Core Collection database. Results showed significant growth in annual yields from 90 records in 2002 to 304 papers in 2021. The United States was the most productive country with the strongest collaboration worldwide in the field. Charles University in the Czech Republic was the institution that contributed the most papers, while 7 of the top 10 productive institutions were from the United States. The United States Department of Health and Human Services and the National Institutes of Health are the two agencies that provide financial support for more than 50% of sponsored publications. The research categories of included publications mainly belong to Oncology and Cardiac Cardiovascular Systems. The Journal of Clinical Oncology had a comprehensive impact on this research field with the highest IF value and many publications. Simunek Tomas from Charles University contributed the most publications, while Lipshultz Steven E. from the State University of New York possessed the highest <i>H</i>-index. In addition, the future research frontiers of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity might include early detection, pharmacogenomics, molecular mechanism, and cardiooncology. The present bibliometric analysis may provide a valuable reference for researchers and practitioners in future research directions.