{'Year': '2022', 'Month': 'Sep', 'Day': '01'}
Frequency of functional exonic single-nucleotide polymorphisms and haplotype distribution in the SLCO1B1 gene across genetic ancestry groups in the Qatari population.
Organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATP), which are encoded by SLCO genes, participate in the hepatic elimination of drugs and xenobiotics. SLCO1B1 is an important pharmacogenomic gene (encoding OATP1B1) associated with response to the uptake of endogenous compounds, such as statin and bilirubin. Ethnicity of the patient modulates the response to these drugs; the frequency and haplotype data for SLCO1B1 genetic variants in the Arab population is lacking. Therefore, we determined the frequencies of two well-characterized SLCO1B1 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) and haplotypes that affect the OATP1B1 drugs transportation activity in Qatari population. Genotyping data for two SLCO1B1 SNPs (c.388A > G, c.521 T > C) were extracted from whole exome data of 1050 Qatari individuals, who were divided into three ancestry groups, namely Bedouins, Persians/South Asians, and Africans. By way of using Fisher's exact and Chi-square tests, we evaluated the differences in minor allele frequency (MAF) of the two functional SNPs and haplotype frequencies (HF) among the three ancestry groups. The OATP1B1 phenotypes were assigned according to their function by following the guidelines from the Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium for SLCO1B1 and Simvastatin-Induced Myopathy.The MAF of SLCO1B1:c.388A > G was higher compared to that of SLCO1B1:c.521 T > C in the study cohort. It was significantly high in the African ancestry group compared with the other two groups, whereas SLCO1B1:c.521 T > C was significantly low in the African ancestry group compared with the other two groups. The SLCO1B1 *15 haplotype had the highest HF, followed by *1b, *1a, and *5. Only the SLCO1B1 *5 haplotype showed no significant difference in frequency across the three ancestry groups. Furthermore, we observed that the OATP1B1 normal function phenotype accounted for 58% of the Qatari individuals, the intermediate function phenotype accounted for 35% with significant differences across the ancestry groups, and the low function phenotype accounted for 6% of the total Qatari individuals with a higher trend observed in the Bedouin group.The results indicate that the phenotype frequencies of the OATP1B1 intermediate and low function in the Qatari population appear at the higher end of the frequency range seen worldwide. Thus, a pharmacogenetic screening program for SLCO1B1 variants may be necessary for the Qatari population.