{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Mar'}
Tutorial: Using Community Engagement Studios to Enhance Pharmacogenetic Study Design for Maximizing Enrollment of Diverse Children and Pregnant People.
Most pharmacogenetic research is conducted in adult, non-pregnant populations of European ancestry. Study of more diverse and special populations is necessary to validate findings and improve health equity. However, there are significant barriers to recruitment of diverse populations for genetic studies, such as mistrust of researchers due to a history of unethical research and ongoing social inequities. Engaging communities and understanding community members' perspectives may help to overcome these barriers and improve research quality. Here, we highlight one method for engaging communities, the Community Engagement Studio (CES), a consultative session that allows researchers to obtain guidance and feedback based on community members' lived experiences. We also provide an example of its use in pharmacogenetic studies. In designing a survey study of knowledge and attitudes around pharmacogenetic testing among children with chronic conditions and pregnant individuals, we sought input from diverse community stakeholders through CESs at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. We participated in two CESs with community stakeholders representing study target populations. Our goals were to learn specific concerns about pharmacogenetic testing and preferred recruitment strategies for these communities. Concerns were expressed about how genetic information would be used beyond the immediate study. Participants emphasized the importance of clarity and transparency in communication to overcome participation hesitancy and mistrust of the study team. Recruitment strategy recommendations ranged from informal notices posted in healthcare settings to provider referrals. The CES enabled us to modify our recruitment methods and research materials to better communicate with populations currently under-represented in pharmacogenetics research.