{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Mar'}
Cell and Tissue Specific Metabolism of Nucleoside and Nucleotide Drugs: Case Studies and Implications for Precision Medicine.
Many clinically used antiviral drugs are nucleoside or nucleotide analog drugs, which have a unique mechanism of action that requires intracellular phosphorylation. This dependence on intracellular activation presents novel challenges for the discovery and development of nucleoside/nucleotide analog drugs. Contrary to many small molecule drug development programs that rely on plasma pharmacokinetics and systemic exposures, the precise mechanisms that result in efficacious intracellular nucleoside triphosphate concentrations must be understood in the process of nucleoside/nucleotide drug development. The importance is highlighted here, using the following as case studies: the herpes treatment acyclovir, the cytomegalovirus therapy ganciclovir, and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) treatments based on tenofovir, which are also in use for HIV prophylaxis. For each drug, the specificity of metabolism that results in its activation in different cells or tissues is discussed, and the implications explored. Acyclovir's dependence on a viral enzyme for activation provides selective pressure for resistance mutations. Ganciclovir is also dependent on a viral enzyme for activation, and suicide gene therapy capitalizes on that for a novel oncology treatment. The tissue of most relevance for tenofovir activation depends on its use as treatment or as prophylaxis, and the pharmacogenomics and drug-drug interactions in those tissues must be considered. Finally, differential metabolism of different tenofovir prodrugs and its effects on toxicity risk are explored. Taken together, these examples highlight the importance of understanding tissue specific metabolism for optimal use of nucleoside/nucleotide drugs in the clinic. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Nucleoside and nucleotide analogue drugs are cornerstones in current antiviral therapy and prevention efforts that require intracellular phosphorylation for activity. Understanding their cell and tissue specific metabolism enables their rational, precision use for maximum efficacy.