{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Jan', 'Day': '24'}
Regulation of Human Endogenous Metabolites by Drug Transporters and Drug Metabolizing Enzymes: An Analysis of Targeted SNP-Metabolite Associations.
Drug transporters and drug-metabolizing enzymes are primarily known for their role in the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME) of small molecule drugs, but they also play a key role in handling endogenous metabolites. Recent cross-tissue co-expression network analyses have revealed a "Remote Sensing and Signaling Network" of multispecific, oligo-specific, and monospecific transporters and enzymes involved in endogenous metabolism. This includes many proteins from families involved in ADME (e.g., SLC22, SLCO, ABCC, CYP, UGT). Focusing on the gut-liver-kidney axis, we identified the endogenous metabolites potentially regulated by this network of ~1000 proteins by associating SNPs in these genes with the circulating levels of thousands of small, polar, bioactive metabolites, including free fatty acids, eicosanoids, bile acids, and other signaling metabolites that act in part via G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), nuclear receptors, and kinases. We identified 77 genomic loci associated with 7236 unique metabolites. This included metabolites that were associated with multiple, distinct loci, indicating coordinated regulation between multiple genes (including drug transporters and drug-metabolizing enzymes) of specific metabolites. We analyzed existing pharmacogenomic data and noted SNPs implicated in endogenous metabolite handling (e.g., rs4149056 in <i>SLCO1B1</i>) also affecting drug ADME. The overall results support the existence of close relationships, via interactions with signaling metabolites, between drug transporters and drug-metabolizing enzymes that are part of the Remote Sensing and Signaling Network, and with GPCRs and nuclear receptors. These analyses highlight the potential for drug-metabolite interactions at the interfaces of the Remote Sensing and Signaling Network and the ADME protein network.