{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Apr'}
A primordial target: Mitochondria mediate both primary and collateral anesthetic effects of volatile anesthetics.
One of the unsolved mysteries of medicine is how do volatile anesthetics (VAs) cause a patient to reversibly lose consciousness. In addition, identifying mechanisms for the collateral effects of VAs, including anesthetic-induced neurotoxicity (AiN) and anesthetic preconditioning (AP), has proven challenging. Multiple classes of molecules (lipids, proteins, and water) have been considered as potential VA targets, but recently proteins have received the most attention. Studies targeting neuronal receptors or ion channels had limited success in identifying the critical targets of VAs mediating either the phenotype of "anesthesia" or their collateral effects. Recent studies in both nematodes and fruit flies may provide a paradigm shift by suggesting that mitochondria may harbor the upstream molecular switch activating both primary and collateral effects. The disruption of a specific step of electron transfer within the mitochondrion causes hypersensitivity to VAs, from nematodes to <i>Drosophila</i> and to humans, while also modulating the sensitivity to collateral effects. The downstream effects from mitochondrial inhibition are potentially legion, but inhibition of presynaptic neurotransmitter cycling appears to be specifically sensitive to the mitochondrial effects. These findings are perhaps of even broader interest since two recent reports indicate that mitochondrial damage may well underlie neurotoxic and neuroprotective effects of VAs in the central nervous system (CNS). It is, therefore, important to understand how anesthetics interact with mitochondria to affect CNS function, not just for the desired facets of general anesthesia but also for significant collateral effects, both harmful and beneficial. A tantalizing possibility exists that both the primary (anesthesia) and secondary (AiN, AP) mechanisms may at least partially overlap in the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC).