{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Sep'}
Machine Learning Application Identifies Germline Markers of Hypertension in Patients With Ovarian Cancer Treated With Carboplatin, Taxane, and Bevacizumab.
Pharmacogenomics studies how genes influence a person's response to treatment. When complex phenotypes are influenced by multiple genetic variations with little effect, a single piece of genetic information is often insufficient to explain this variability. The application of machine learning (ML) in pharmacogenomics holds great potential - namely, it can be used to unravel complicated genetic relationships that could explain response to therapy. In this study, ML techniques were used to investigate the relationship between genetic variations affecting more than 60 candidate genes and carboplatin-induced, taxane-induced, and bevacizumab-induced toxicities in 171 patients with ovarian cancer enrolled in the MITO-16A/MaNGO-OV2A trial. Single-nucleotide variation (SNV, formerly SNP) profiles were examined using ML to find and prioritize those associated with drug-induced toxicities, specifically hypertension, hematological toxicity, nonhematological toxicity, and proteinuria. The Boruta algorithm was used in cross-validation to determine the significance of SNVs in predicting toxicities. Important SNVs were then used to train eXtreme gradient boosting models. During cross-validation, the models achieved reliable performance with a Matthews correlation coefficient ranging from 0.375 to 0.410. A total of 43 SNVs critical for predicting toxicity were identified. For each toxicity, key SNVs were used to create a polygenic toxicity risk score that effectively divided individuals into high-risk and low-risk categories. In particular, compared with low-risk individuals, high-risk patients were 28-fold more likely to develop hypertension. The proposed method provided insightful data to improve precision medicine for patients with ovarian cancer, which may be useful for reducing toxicities and improving toxicity management.