{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Dec'}
Genetic counseling graduate program faculty perspectives on sharing education materials among programs.
Rapid advancements in genetics care requires responsive genetic counseling (GC) training capable of integrating new discoveries and practice into their curricula. The utilization of shared or standardized educational resources may address this need. Recognizing the potential of shared resources, the Pharmacogenetics (PGx) Working Group of the NSGC Precision Medicine Special Interest Group (SIG) launched a standardized education module using a flipped-classroom format to provide all GC programs equal access to PGx expertise and alleviate the burden of curriculum development. Following the initial success of the program, we aimed to explore the utilization of shared and standardized education resources more broadly, and better understand the perspectives of GC program faculty regarding their use. Twenty-nine program faculty representing at least 14 programs responded to an online survey. The majority (n = 21) reported sharing educational materials with another GC program, and 90% of those reported the shared materials to be beneficial as they promote collaboration, efficiency, address a gap in content, and provide access to experts. Similar benefits were described when using a standardized curriculum, which was defined as standardized lectures and activities created about a particular topic and made available to all genetic counseling programs; 16 participants indicated they would be very likely or likely to use a standardized curriculum. A secondary aim of the survey was to assess the existing PGx module that utilizes a flipped-classroom format. Overall, the PGx module was well received, indicating that a standardized shared module is well-suited for instruction on emerging and specialty topics. All participants believed the flipped-classroom format to be very or somewhat beneficial. In summary, results indicate that shared educational materials, including standardized education modules, are a potential solution to challenges related to efficiency and access to content experts in GC education, and program leadership is receptive to using them.