{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Dec', 'Day': '22'}
Therapeutic Drug Monitoring and Pharmacogenetic Testing as Guides to Psychotropic Drug Dose Adjustment: An Observational Study.
To avoid the failures in therapy with psychotropic drugs, treatments can be personalized by applying the results of therapeutic drug monitoring and pharmacogenetic testing. The objective of the present single-center observational study was to describe the changes in psychotropic drug management prompted by therapeutic drug monitoring and pharmacogenetic testing, and to compare the effective drug concentration based on metabolic status with the dose predicted using an in silico decision tool for drug-drug interactions. The study was conducted in psychiatry wards at Lille University Hospital (Lille, France) between 2016 and 2020. Patients with data for at least one therapeutic drug monitoring session or pharmacogenetic test were included. Blood tests were performed for 490 inpatients (mainly indicated by treatment monitoring or failure) and mainly concerned clozapine (21.4%) and quetiapine (13.7%). Of the 617 initial therapeutic drug monitoring tests, 245 (40%) complied with good sampling practice. Of the patients, 51% had a drug concentration within the therapeutic range. Regardless of the drug concentration, the drug management did not change in 83% of cases. Thirty patients underwent pharmacogenetic testing (twenty-seven had also undergone therapeutic drug monitoring) for treatment failure; the plasma drug concentration was outside the reference range in 93% of cases. The patient's metabolic status explained the treatment failure in 12 cases (40%), and prompted a switch to a drug metabolized by another CYP450 pathway in 5 cases (42%). Of the six tests that could be analyzed with the in silico decision tool, all of the drug concentrations after adjustment were included in the range estimated by the tool. Knowledge of a patient's drug concentration and metabolic status (for CYD2D6 and CYP2C19) can help clinicians to optimize psychotropic drug adjustment. Drug management can be optimized with good sampling practice, support from a multidisciplinary team (a physician, a geneticist, and clinical pharmacist), and decision support tools.