{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'Mar'}
Knowledge and attitudes on implementing cardiovascular pharmacogenomic testing.
Pharmacogenomics has the potential to inform drug dosing and selection, reduce adverse events, and improve medication efficacy; however, provider knowledge of pharmacogenomic testing varies across provider types and specialties. Given that many actionable pharmacogenomic genes are implicated in cardiovascular medication response variability, this study aimed to evaluate cardiology providers' knowledge and attitudes on implementing clinical pharmacogenomic testing. Sixty-one providers responded to an online survey, including pharmacists (46%), physicians (31%), genetic counselors (15%), and nurses (8%). Most respondents (94%) reported previous genetics education; however, only 52% felt their genetics education prepared them to order a clinical pharmacogenomic test. In addition, most respondents (66%) were familiar with pharmacogenomics, with genetic counselors being most likely to be familiar (p < 0.001). Only 15% of respondents had previously ordered a clinical pharmacogenomic test and a total of 36% indicated they are likely to order a pharmacogenomic test in the future; however, the vast majority of respondents (89%) were interested in pharmacogenomic testing being incorporated into diagnostic cardiovascular genetic tests. Moreover, 84% of providers preferred pharmacogenomic panel testing compared to 16% who preferred single gene testing. Half of the providers reported being comfortable discussing pharmacogenomic results with their patients, but the majority (60%) expressed discomfort with the logistics of test ordering. Reported barriers to implementation included uncertainty about the clinical utility and difficulty choosing an appropriate test. Taken together, cardiology providers have moderate familiarity with pharmacogenomics and limited experience with test ordering; however, they are interested in incorporating pharmacogenomics into diagnostic genetic tests and ordering pharmacogenomic panels.