{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'Mar', 'Day': '15'}
Network pharmacology and molecular docking to explore the mechanism of a clinical proved recipe for external use of clearing heat and removing dampness in the treatment of immune-related cutaneous adverse events.
Immune-related cutaneous adverse events (ircAEs) will undermine the patients' quality of lives, and interrupt the antitumor therapy. A clinical proved recipe for external use of clearing heat and removing dampness (Qing-Re-Li-Shi Formula, hereinafter referred to as "QRLSF") is beneficial to the treatment of ircAEs in clinical practice. Our study will elucidate the mechanism of QRLSF against ircAEs based on network pharmacology and molecular docking. The active components and corresponding targets of QRLSF were collected through traditional Chinese medicine systems pharmacology database. GeneCards, online Mendelian inheritance in man, and pharmacogenomics knowledgebase were used to screen the targets of ircAEs. The intersecting targets between drug and disease were acquired by venn analysis. Cytoscape software was employed to construct "components-targets" network. Search tool for the retrieval of interacting genes/proteins database was applied to establish the protein-protein interaction network and then its core targets were identified. Gene ontology and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes analysis was performed to predict the mechanism. The molecular docking verification of key targets and related phytomolecules was accomplished by AutoDock Vina software. Thirty-nine intersecting targets related to QRLSF against ircAEs were recognized. The analysis of network clarified 5 core targets (STAT3, RELA, TNF, TP53, and NFKBIA) and 4 key components (quercetin, apigenin, luteolin, and ursolic acid). The activity of QRLSF against ircAEs could be attributed to the regulation of multiple biological effects via multi-pathways (PI3K-Akt pathway, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, JAK-STAT pathway, chemokine pathway, Th17 cell differentiation, IL-17 pathway, TNF pathway, and Toll-like receptor pathway). The binding activities were estimated as good level by molecular docking. These discoveries disclosed the multi-component, multi-target, and multi-pathway characteristics of QRLSF against ircAEs, providing a new strategy for such medical problem.