{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'Mar', 'Day': '11'}
Genetic Signatures for Distinguishing Chemo-Sensitive from Chemo-Resistant Responders in Prostate Cancer Patients.
Prostate cancer remains a significant public health concern in sub-Saharan Africa, particularly impacting South Africa with high mortality rates. Despite many years of extensive research and significant financial expenditure, there has yet to be a definitive solution to prostate cancer. It is not just individuals who vary in their response to treatment, but even different nodules within the same tumor exhibit unique transcriptome patterns. These distinctions extend beyond mere differences in gene expression levels to encompass the control and networking of individual genes. Escalating chemotherapy resistance in prostate cancer patients has prompted increased research into its underlying mechanisms. The heterogeneous nature of transcriptomic organization among men makes the pursuit of universal biomarkers and one-size-fits-all treatments impractical. This study delves into the expression of drug resistance-associated genes, ABCB1 and CYP1B1, in cancer cells. Employing bioinformatics, we explored the molecular pathways and cascades linked to drug resistance following upregulation of these genes. Samples were obtained from archived prostate cancer patient specimens through pre-treatment biopsies of two categories: good vs. poor responders, with cDNAs synthesized from isolated RNAs subjected to qPCR analysis. The results revealed increased ABCB1 and CYP1B1 expression in tumor samples of the poor responders. Gene enrichment and network analysis associated ABCB1 with ABC transporters and LncRNA-mediated therapeutic resistance (WP3672), while CYP1B1 was linked to ovarian steroidogenesis, tryptophan metabolism, steroid hormone biosynthesis, benzo(a)pyrene metabolism, the sulindac metabolic pathway, and the estrogen receptor pathway, which are associated with drug resistance. Both ABCB1 and CYP1B1 correlated with microRNAs in cancer and the Nuclear Receptors Meta-Pathway. STRING analysis predicted protein-protein interactions of ABCB1 and CYP1B1 with Glutathione S-transferase Pi, Catechol O-methyltransferase, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1-6, Leucine-rich Transmembrane and O-methyltransferase (LRTOMT), and Epoxide hydrolase 1, with scores of 0.973, 0.971, 0.966, 0.966, and 0.966, respectively. Furthermore, molecular docking analysis of the chemotherapy drug, docetaxel, with CYP1B1 and ABCB1 revealed robust molecular interactions, with binding energies of -20.37 and -15.25 Kcal/mol, respectively. These findings underscore the susceptibility of cancer patients to drug resistance due to increased ABCB1 and CYP1B1 expression in tumor samples from patients in the poor-responders category that affects associated molecular pathways. The potent molecular interactions of ABCB1 and CYP1B1 with docetaxel further emphasize the potential basis for chemotherapy resistance.