{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'Feb', 'Day': '20'}
ADME Gene-Related Pharmacogenomic Labeling of FDA-Approved Drugs: Comparison with Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) Evidence Levels.
Pharmacogenomics (PGx) can facilitate the transition to patient-specific drug regimens and thus improve their efficacy and reduce toxicity. The aim of this study was to evaluate the overlap of PGx classification for drug absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination (ADME)-related genes in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) PGx labeling and in the Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) database. FDA-approved drugs and PGx labeling for ADME genes were identified in the CPIC database. Drugs were filtered by their association with ADME (pharmacokinetics)-related genes, PGx FDA labeling class, and CPIC evidence level. FDA PGx labeling was classified as either actionable, informative, testing recommended, or testing required, and varying CPIC evidence levels as either A, B, C, or D. From a total of 442 ADME and non-ADME gene-drug pairs in the CPIC database, 273, 55, and 48 pairs were excluded for lack of FDA labeling, mixed CPIC evidence level provisional classification, and non-ADME gene-drug pairs, respectively. The 66 ADME gene-drug pairs were classified into the following categories: 10 (15%) informative, 49 (74%) actionable, 6 (9%) testing recommended, and 1 (2%) testing required. CYP2D6 was the most prevalent gene among the FDA PGx labeling. From the ADME gene-drug pairs with both FDA and CPIC PGx classification, the majority of the drugs were for depression, cancer, and pain medications. The ADME gene-drug pairs with FDA PGx labeling considerably overlap with CPIC classification; however, a large number of ADME gene-drug pairs have only CPIC evidence levels but not FDA classification. PGx actionable labeling was the most common classification, with CYP2D6 as the most prevalent ADME gene in the FDA PGx labeling. Health professionals can impact therapeutic outcomes via pharmacogenetic interventions by analyzing and reconciling the FDA labels and CPIC database.