{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'Jun'}
Pharmacogenetic intervention improves treatment outcomes in Chinese adult men with schizophrenia.
To investigate the clinical application value of pharmacogenetic testing in individualized drug therapy for adult male patients with schizophrenia. A total of 186 adult patients with schizophrenia were enrolled and randomised into the pharmacogenetic (PGx) intervention group and the standard care group. In the PGx intervention group, PGx testing was performed, and the medication regimen was adjusted according to the results of the pharmacogenomic analysis. In contrast, in the standard care group, patients were treated according to the physician's medication experience. Differences in the primary indicator of schizophrenia, the Positive and Negative Symptom Scale (PANSS), and the secondary efficacy measures, the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness scale (CGI-SI) and Clinical Global Impressions-Global Improvement (CGI-GI) scale, were compared between the intervention and standard care groups. At baseline, the PGx intervention group consisted of 109 individuals, while the standard care group had 77 participants. After 12 weeks of treatment, 49 individuals withdrew from the PGx group (a dropout rate of 45.0%), and 34 withdrew from the standard care group (a dropout rate of 44.2%), with no significant difference in dropout rates between the two groups. The PANSS score reduction rate in the PGx intervention group significantly exceeded that of the standard care group during weeks 3, 6, and 12 of follow-up (P < 0.05). At the 12th week, the PGx intervention group achieved a treatment response rate of 81.7%, significantly surpassing the 48.8% of the standard care group (odds ratio of 4.67, 95% confidence interval of 1.96-11.41; P = 0.001). Furthermore, the PGx intervention was significantly more effective than standard care regardless of whether the patient had a first episode or a relapse (P < 0.05). Furthermore, the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) scores and the Personal and Social Performance Scale (PSP) score changes in the PGx intervention group were both significantly different from those in the standard care group (P < 0.05). It is noteworthy that the PGx intervention similarly improves the prognostic outcomes for patients with and without a family history of mental disorders. In conclusion, the application of a PGx intervention treatment model based on PGx testing can significantly improve medication efficacy and shorten the time to achieve the effects of medication in schizophrenia.