{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'Sep'}
Genetic Risk Factors for Bortezomib-induced Neuropathic Pain in an Asian Population: A Genome-wide Association Study in South Korea.
Bortezomib-induced neuropathic pain (BINP) poses a challenge in multiple myeloma (MM) treatment. Genetic factors play a key role in BINP susceptibility, but research has predominantly focused on Caucasian populations. This research explored novel genetic risk loci and pathways associated with BINP development in Korean MM patients while evaluating the reproducibility of variants from Caucasians. Clinical data and buffy coat samples from 185 MM patients on bortezomib were collected. The cohort was split into discovery and validation cohorts through random stratification of clinical risk factors for BINP. Genome-wide association study was performed on the discovery cohort (n = 74) with Infinium Global Screening Array-24 v3.0 BeadChip (654,027 single nucleotide polymorphism [SNPs]). Relevant biological pathways were identified using the pathway scoring algorithm. The top 20 SNPs were validated in the validation cohort (n = 111). Previously reported SNPs were validated in the entire cohort (n = 185). Pathway analysis of the genome-wide association study results identified 31 relevant pathways, including immune systems and endosomal vacuolar pathways. Among the top 20 SNPs from the discovery cohort, 16 were replicated, which included intronic variants in ASIC2 and SMOC2, recently implicated in nociception, as well as intergenic variants or long noncoding RNAs. None of the 17 previously reported SNPs remained significant in our cohort (rs2274578, P = .085). This study represents the first investigation of novel genetic loci and biological pathways associated with BINP occurrence. Our findings, in conjunction with existing Caucasian studies, expand the understanding of personalized risk prediction and disease mechanisms. PERSPECTIVE: This article is the first to explore novel genetic loci and pathways linked to BINP in Korean MM patients, offering novel insights beyond the existing research focused on Caucasian populations into personalized risk assessment and therapeutic strategies of BINP.