{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'Feb'}
Recent observations suggest a role of the volume of the cerebral ventricle volume, corpus callosum (CC) segment volume, in particular that of the central-anterior part, and choroid plexus (CP) volume for treatment resistance of major depressive disorder (MDD). An increased CP volume has been associated with increased inflammatory activity and changes in the structure of the ventricles and corpus callosum. We attempt to replicate and confirm that these imaging markers are associated with clinical outcome in subjects from the EMBARC study, as implied by a recent pilot study. The EMBARC study is a placebo controlled randomized study comparing sertraline vs. placebo in patients with MDD to identify biological markers of therapy resistance. Association of baseline volumes of the lateral ventricles (LVV), choroid plexus volume (CPV) and volume of segments of the CC with treatment response after 4 weeks treatment was evaluated. 171 subjects (61 male, 110 female) completed the 4 week assessments; gender and age were taken into account for this analyses. As previously reported, no treatment effect of sertraline vs. placebo was observed, therefore the study characterized prognostic markers of response in the pooled population. Change in depression severity was identified by the ratio of the Hamilton-Depression rating scale 17 (HAMD-17) at week 4 divided by the HAMD-17 at baseline (HAMD-17 ratio). Volumes of the lateral ventricles and choroid plexi were positively correlated with the HAMD-17 ratio, indication worse outcome with larger ventricles and choroid plexus volumes, whereas the volume of the central-anterior corpus callosum was negatively correlated with the HAMD-17 ratio. Responders (n = 54) had significantly smaller volumes of the lateral ventricles and CP compared to non-responders (n = 117), whereas the volume of mid-anterior CC was significantly larger compared to non-responders (n = 117), confirming our previous findings. In an exploratory way associations between enlarged LVV and CPV and signs of lipid dysregulation were observed. In conclusion, we confirmed that volumes of lateral ventricles, choroid plexi and the mid-anterior corpus callosum are associated with clinical improvement of depression and may be indicators of metabolic/inflammatory activity.