{'Year': '2023'}
Ageing is generally characterised by the declining ability to respond to stress, increasing homeostatic imbalance, and increased risk of ageing-associated diseases . Mechanistically, the lifelong accumulation of a wide range of molecular and cellular impairments leads to organismal senescence. The aging population poses a severe medical concern due to the burden it places on healthcare systems and the general public as well as the prevalence of diseases and impairments associated with old age. In this chapter, we discuss organ failure during ageing as well as ageing of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and drugs that can regulate it. A much-debated subject is about ageing and regeneration. With age, there is a gradual decline in the regenerative properties of most tissues. The goal of regenerative medicine is to restore cells, tissues, and structures that are lost or damaged after disease, injury, or ageing. The question arises as to whether this is due to the intrinsic ageing of stem cells or, rather, to the impairment of stem-cell function in the aged tissue environment. The risk of having a stroke event doubles each decade after the age of 55. Therefore, it is of great interest to develop neurorestorative therapies for stroke which occurs mostly in elderly people. Initial enthusiasm for stimulating restorative processes in the ischaemic brain with cell-based therapies has meanwhile converted into a more balanced view, recognising impediments related to survival, migration, differentiation, and integration of therapeutic cells in the hostile aged brain environment. Therefore, a current lack of understanding of the fate of transplanted cells means that the safety of cell therapy in stroke patients is still unproven. Another issue associated with ischaemic stroke is that patients at risk for these sequels of stroke are not duly diagnosed and treated due to the lack of reliable biomarkers. However, recently neurovascular unit-derived exosomes in response to Stroke and released into serum are new plasma genetic and proteomic biomarkers associated with ischaemic stroke. The second valid option, which is also more economical, is to invest in prevention.