{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'May'}
Patients with severe mental disorders such as bipolar disorder (BD), schizophrenia (SCZ) and major depressive disorder (MDD) show a substantial reduction in life expectancy, increased incidence of comorbid medical conditions commonly observed with advanced age and alterations of aging hallmarks. While severe mental disorders are heritable, the extent to which genetic predisposition might contribute to accelerated cellular aging is not known. We used bivariate causal mixture models to quantify the trait-specific and shared architecture of mental disorders and 2 aging hallmarks (leukocyte telomere length [LTL] and mitochondrial DNA copy number), and the conjunctional false discovery rate method to detect shared genetic loci. We integrated gene expression data from brain regions from GTEx and used different tools to functionally annotate identified loci and investigate their druggability. Aging hallmarks showed low polygenicity compared with severe mental disorders. We observed a significant negative global genetic correlation between MDD and LTL (r<sub>g</sub> = -0.14, p = 6.5E-10), and no significant results for other severe mental disorders or for mtDNA-cn. However, conditional QQ plots and bivariate causal mixture models pointed to significant pleiotropy among all severe mental disorders and aging hallmarks. We identified genetic variants significantly shared between LTL and BD (n = 17), SCZ (n = 55) or MDD (n = 19), or mtDNA-cn and BD (n = 4), SCZ (n = 12) or MDD (n = 1), with mixed direction of effects. The exonic rs7909129 variant in the SORCS3 gene, encoding a member of the retromer complex involved in protein trafficking and intracellular/intercellular signaling, was associated with shorter LTL and increased predisposition to all severe mental disorders. Genetic variants underlying risk of SCZ or MDD and shorter LTL modulate expression of several druggable genes in different brain regions. Genistein, a phytoestrogen with anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects, was an upstream regulator of 2 genes modulated by variants associated with risk of MDD and shorter LTL. While our results suggest that shared heritability might play a limited role in contributing to accelerated cellular aging in severe mental disorders, we identified shared genetic determinants and prioritized different druggable targets and compounds.