{'Year': '2021'}
Hydroxyurea has long been used for the treatment of sickle cell anemia (SCA), and its clinical effectiveness is related to the induction of fetal hemoglobin (HbF), a major modifier of SCA phenotypes. However, there is substantial variability in response to hydroxyurea among patients with SCA. While some patients show an increase in HbF levels and an ameliorated clinical condition under low doses of hydroxyurea, other patients present a poor effect or even develop toxicity. However, the effects of genetic polymorphisms on increasing HbF levels in response to hydroxyurea in patients with SCA (Hb SS) have been less explored. Therefore, we performed a systematic review to assess whether single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) affect HbF levels in patients with SCA treated with hydroxyurea. Moreover, we performed pathway analysis using the set of genes with SNPs found to be associated with changes in HbF levels in response to hydroxyurea among the included studies. The systematic literature search was conducted on Medline/PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), Scopus, and Web of Science. Seven cohort studies were included following our inclusion and exclusion criteria. From the 728 genetic polymorphisms examined in the included studies, 50 different SNPs of 17 genes were found to be associated with HbF changes in patients with SCA treated with hydroxyurea, which are known to affect baseline HbF but are not restricted to them. Enrichment analysis of this gene set revealed reactome pathways with the lowest adjusted <i>p</i>-values and highest combined scores related to VEGF ligand-receptor interactions (R-HSA-194313; R-HSA-195399) and the urea cycle (R-HSA-70635). Pharmacogenetic studies of response to hydroxyurea therapy in patients with SCA are still scarce and markedly heterogeneous regarding candidate genes and SNPs examined for association with HbF changes and outcomes, suggesting that further studies are needed. The reviewed findings highlighted that similar to baseline HbF, changes in HbF levels upon hydroxyurea therapy are likely to be regulated by multiple loci. There is evidence that SNPs in intron 2 of <i>BCL11A</i> affect HbF changes in response to hydroxyurea therapy, a potential application that might improve the clinical management of SCA. <b>Systematic Review Registration:</b> (https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=208790).