{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'Feb'}
Environmental enrichment (EE) is a process of brain stimulation by modifying the surroundings, for example, by changing the sensory, social, or physical conditions. Rodents have been used in such experimental strategies through exposure to diverse physical, social, and exploration conditions. The present study conducted an extensive analysis of the existing literature surrounding the impact of EE on dementia rodent models. The review emphasised the two principal aspects that are very closely related to dementia: cognitive function (learning and memory) as well as psychological factors (anxiety-related behaviours such as phobias and unrealistic worries). Also highlighted were the mechanisms involved in the rodent models of dementia showing EE effects. Two search engines, PubMed and Science Direct, were used for data collection using the following keywords: environmental enrichment, dementia, rodent model, cognitive performance, and anxiety-related behaviour. Fifty-five articles were chosen depending on the criteria for inclusion and exclusion. The rodent models with dementia demonstrated improved learning and memory in the form of hampered inflammatory responses, enhanced neuronal plasticity, and sustained neuronal activity. EE housing also prevented memory impairment through the prevention of amyloid beta (Aβ) seeding formation, an early stage of Aβ plaque formation. The rodents subjected to EE were observed to present increased exploratory activity and exert less anxiety-related behaviour, compared to those in standard housing. However, some studies have proposed that EE intervention through exercise would be too mild to counteract the anxiety-related behaviour and risk assessment behaviour deficits in the Alzheimer's disease rodent model. Future studies should be conducted on old-aged rodents and the duration of EE exposure that would elicit the greatest benefits since the existing studies have been conducted on a range of ages and EE durations. In summary, EE had a considerable effect on dementia rodent models, with the most evident being improved cognitive function.