{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Sep'}
In recent years, some endogenous substrates of organic anion transporting polypeptide 1B (OATP1B) have been identified and characterized as potential biomarkers to assess OATP1B-mediated clinical drug-drug interactions (DDIs). However, quantitative determination of their selectivity to OATP1B is still limited. In this study, we developed a relative activity factor (RAF) method to determine the relative contribution of hepatic uptake transporters OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OATP2B1, and sodium-taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide (NTCP) on hepatic uptake of several OATP1B biomarkers, including coproporphyrin I (CPI), coproporphyrin I CPIII, and sulfate conjugates of bile acids: glycochenodeoxycholic acid sulfate (GCDCA-S), glycodeoxycholic acid sulfate (GDCA-S), and taurochenodeoxycholic acid sulfate (TCDCA-S). RAF values for OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OATP2B1, and NTCP were determined in cryopreserved human hepatocytes and transporter transfected cells using pitavastatin, cholecystokinin, resveratrol-3-<i>O</i>-<i>β</i>-D-glucuronide, and taurocholic acid (TCA) as reference compounds, respectively. OATP1B1-specific pitavastatin uptake in hepatocytes was measured in the absence and presence of 1 <i>µ</i>M estropipate, whereas NTCP-specific TCA uptake was measured in the presence of 10 <i>µ</i>M rifampin. Our studies suggested that CPI was a more selective biomarker for OATP1B1 than CPIII, whereas GCDCA-S and TCDCA-S were more selective to OATP1B3. OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 equally contributed to hepatic uptake of GDCA-S. The mechanistic static model, incorporating the fraction transported of CPI/III estimated by RAF and in vivo elimination data, predicted several perpetrator interactions with CPI/III. Overall, RAF method combined with pharmacogenomic and DDI studies is a useful tool to determine the selectivity of transporter biomarkers and facilitate the selection of appropriate biomarkers for DDI evaluation. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: The authors developed a new relative activity factor (RAF) method to quantify the contribution of hepatic uptake transporters organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP)1B1, OATP1B3, OATP2B1, and sodium taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide (NTCP) on several OATP1B biomarkers and evaluated their predictive value on drug-drug interactions (DDI). These studies suggest that the RAF method is a useful tool to determine the selectivity of transporter biomarkers. This method combined with pharmacogenomic and DDI studies will mechanistically facilitate the selection of appropriate biomarkers for DDI prediction.