{'Year': '2022', 'Month': 'Nov', 'Day': '23'}
<i>Background and Objectives</i>: Despite the best efforts of healthcare workers and the deployment of alternative healthcare delivery solutions through telemedicine, the pandemic has disrupted standard care for patients with chronic conditions. The long-lasting pandemic has also had a profound impact on the quality of life (QoL) of the majority of patients with chronic illnesses. The management of rare diseases has been particularly challenging. We aimed to evaluate the impacts that the long-lasting pandemic had on the disease control status and QoL in patients with acromegaly. <i>Materials and Methods</i>: Our prospective study included 34 patients from a national referral centre. The baseline SAGIT and AcroQoL results were obtained in October 2020 during the lockdown period of the SARS-CoV2 pandemic. The follow-up results were assessed during the summer of 2022 in a period without any public health restrictions. All the patients were additionally evaluated for their attitude towards preventative public health measures against SARS-CoV2 spread and required mask wearing during the pandemic. <i>Results</i>: By comparing assessments in 2020 during the lockdown period and 2022 post-lockdown, we observed some improvement in SAGIT subscores T and I, most likely reflecting treatment changes in a small number of patients. The global SAGIT score remained stable. QoL measurement by AcroQoL did not demonstrate any changes. There was a negative correlation between SAGIT subscore S and the AcroQoL results. We also noted that the group of patients with the most negative attitude toward public health measurements for preventing SARS-CoV2 spread had higher AcroQoL results than others. <i>Conclusion</i>: Our results showcase that the SARS-CoV2 pandemic, lasting over two years, did not impact the disease control status and QoL in patients with acromegaly. The cohort continued to be well controlled and without changes in QoL. We measured a relatively favourable attitude towards the public health measures to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV2; in particular, patients who had a lower QoL had more positive attitudes towards these measures.