{'Year': '2022', 'Month': 'Jan'}
CYP3A5 and CYP3A4 are the predominant enzymes responsible for tacrolimus metabolism; however only a proportion of the population expresses CYP3A5 secondary to genetic variation. CYP3A5 is expressed in both the intestine and the liver and has been shown to impact both the bioavailability and metabolism of orally administered tacrolimus. Increasing the initial tacrolimus dose by 50% to 100% is recommended in patients who are known CYP3A5 expressers; however, whether this dose adjustment is appropriate for i.v. tacrolimus administration is unclear. The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of CYP3A5 genotype as well as other pharmacogenes on i.v. tacrolimus exposure to determine whether the current genotype-guided dosing recommendations are appropriate for this formulation. In addition, this study aimed to investigate dose conversion requirements among CYP3A5 genotypes when converting from i.v. to p.o. tacrolimus. This study is a retrospective chart review of all patients who underwent allogeneic stem cell transplantation at Michigan Medicine between June 1, 2014, and March 1, 2018, who received i.v. tacrolimus at the time of their transplantation. Secondary use samples were obtained for genotyping CYP3A5, CYP3A4, and ABCB1. Patient demographic information, tacrolimus dosing and trough levels, and concomitant medications received at the time of tacrolimus trough were collected retrospectively from the patients' medical records. The i.v. dose-controlled concentration (C/D) and the i.v.:p.o. exposure ratio was calculated for all tacrolimus doses and patients, respectively. The impact of CYP3A5, CYP3A4, and ABCB1 genotypes on the i.v. C/D were evaluated with linear mixed modeling. The impact of CYP3A5 genotype on the i.v.:p.o. ratio was evaluated while controlling for age and concomitant use of an azole inhibitor. CYP3A5 and CYP3A4 genotypes were significantly associated with the i.v. C/D, with CYP3A5 expressers and CYP3A4 rapid metabolizers having 20% lower tacrolimus exposure. Neither genotype remained significant in the multivariable model, although age, hematocrit, and concomitant use of strong azole inhibitors were associated with increased i.v. C/D. When controlling for patient age and sex, CYP3A5 expressers had significantly higher i.v.:p.o. ratios than CYP3A5 nonexpressers (3.42 versus 2.78; P = .04). Post hoc analysis showed that the i.v.:p.o. ratio may differ among different CYP3A5 genotypes and azole inhibitor combinations. This study demonstrates that the current genotype-guided tacrolimus dose adjustment recommendations are inappropriate for CYP3A5 expressers receiving i.v. tacrolimus. Although CYP3A5 genotype is likely a minor contributor to i.v. tacrolimus exposure, genotype, in addition to capturing concomitant CYP3A inhibitors, would likely improve i.v.:p.o. dose conversion selection. © 2021 American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc.