{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'Jan'}
Porous NiTi (pNiTi) is a promising biomaterial for functional long-term implantation that has been produced using various manufacturing techniques and tested for biocompatibility. pNiTi produced using a more recent technology of Metal Injection Molding (MIM) has shown better physical and mechanical properties than those produced by earlier manufacturing methods, but its biocompatibility has yet to be determined. Hence, extracts from pNiTi dental implants produced by MIM were tested for cytotoxicity and genotoxicity in this work. Its toxicity was evaluated at the cellular and in vitro levels using elution and 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assays. Short-term testing revealed that pNiTi extract was cytocompatible with L-929 fibroblast and V79-4 lung cells, with no cell lysis or reactivity observed, respectively (USP grade 0). Following exposure to varied extract concentrations, good cell viability was observed where the lowest concentration showed the highest optical density (OD) and cell viability (2.968 ± 0.117 and 94%, respectively), and the highest concentration had the least OD and cell viability (2.251 ± 0.054 and 71%, respectively). pNiTi extracts demonstrated genocompatibility in two independent assays: mutagenic potential using a bacterial reverse mutation test and a clastogenic effect on chromosomes using the micronucleus test. Similar to the negative control reactions, there was no significant increase in revertant colonies following exposure to 100% pNiTi extract with and without metabolic activation (p = .00). No DNA clastogenic activity was caused by pNiTi at varied extract concentrations as compared to the negative control when tested with and without metabolic activation (p = .00). As a result, both cytotoxic and genotoxic investigations have confirmed that pNiTi dental implants utilizing the MIM process are cytocompatible and genocompatible in the short term, according to the International Standard, ISO 10993 - Parts 3, 5, and 33.