{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'May', 'Day': '13'}
The role of transporters in drug clearance is widely acknowledged, directly and indirectly by facilitating tissue/enzyme exposure. Through the latter, transporters also affect volume of distribution. Drug-drug interactions (DDIs) involving organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATPs) 1B1/1B3 and <i>SLCO1B1</i> pharmacogenetics lead to altered pharmacokinetics of OATP1B substrates; however, several factors may confound direct interpretation of pharmacokinetic parameters from these clinical studies using noncompartmental analysis (NCA). A review of clinical data herein indicates a single dose of OATP1B inhibitor rifampin almost never leads to increased substrate half-life but often a decrease, and that most clinical OATP1B substrates are CYP3A4 substrates and/or undergo enterohepatic cycling (EHC). Using hypothetically simple OATP1B substrate physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models, simulated effect of rifampin differed from specific OATP1B inhibition, due to short rifampin half-life causing dissipation of OATP1B inhibition over time combined with CYP3A4 induction. Calculated using simulated tissue data, volume of distribution indeed decreased with OATP1B inhibition and was expectedly limited to the contribution of liver volume. However, an apparent and counterintuitive effect of rifampin on volume greater than that on clearance resulted for CYP3A4 substrates, using NCA. Effect of OATP1B inhibition and rifampin on OATP1B substrate models incorporating EHC +/- renal clearance was distinct compared to simpler models. Using PBPK models incorporating reversible lactone metabolism for clinical OATP1B substrates atorvastatin and pitavastatin, DDIs reporting decreased half-life with rifampin were reproduced. These simulations provide explanation for the distinct change in OATP1B substrate pharmacokinetics observed in clinical studies, including changes in volume of distribution and additional mechanisms. <b>Significance Statement</b> Transporters are involved in both drug clearance and volume of distribution and distinct changes in OATP1B substrate pharmacokinetics are observed with OATP1B inhibitor rifampin. Using hypothetical and validated PBPK models and simulations we address the limitations of single-dose rifampin and complicated clinical OATP1B substrate disposition in evaluating the pharmacokinetic parameters of OATP1B substrates during rifampin DDIs. These models account for the change in volume of distribution and identify additional mechanisms underlying apparent pharmacokinetic changes in OATP1B DDIs.