{'Year': '2023'}
Psychosis spectrum disorders (PSDs), as well as other severe mental illnesses where psychotic features may be present, like bipolar disorder, are associated with intrinsic metabolic abnormalities. Antipsychotics (APs), the cornerstone of treatment for PSDs, incur additional metabolic adversities including weight gain. Currently, major gaps exist in understanding psychosis illness biomarkers, as well as risk factors and mechanisms for AP-induced weight gain. Metabolomic profiles may identify biomarkers and provide insight into the mechanistic underpinnings of PSDs and antipsychotic-induced weight gain. In this 12-week prospective naturalistic study, we compared serum metabolomic profiles of 25 cases within approximately 1 week of starting an AP to 6 healthy controls at baseline to examine biomarkers of intrinsic metabolic dysfunction in PSDs. In 17 of the case participants with baseline and week 12 samples, we then examined changes in metabolomic profiles over 12 weeks of AP treatment to identify metabolites that may associate with AP-induced weight gain. In the cohort with pre-post data (<i>n</i> = 17), we also compared baseline metabolomes of participants who gained ≥5% baseline body weight to those who gained <5% to identify potential biomarkers of antipsychotic-induced weight gain. Minimally AP-exposed cases were distinguished from controls by six fatty acids when compared at baseline, namely reduced levels of palmitoleic acid, lauric acid, and heneicosylic acid, as well as elevated levels of behenic acid, arachidonic acid, and myristoleic acid (FDR < 0.05). Baseline levels of the fatty acid adrenic acid was increased in 11 individuals who experienced a clinically significant body weight gain (≥5%) following 12 weeks of AP exposure as compared to those who did not (FDR = 0.0408). Fatty acids may represent illness biomarkers of PSDs and early predictors of AP-induced weight gain. The findings may hold important clinical implications for early identification of individuals who could benefit from prevention strategies to reduce future cardiometabolic risk, and may lead to novel, targeted treatments to counteract metabolic dysfunction in PSDs.