{'Year': '2022', 'Month': 'Dec', 'Day': '10'}
The global scope and scale of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic led to huge amounts of important data from clinical observations and experimental analyses being collected, in particular, regarding the long-term impact of COVID-19 on lung tissue. Visible changes in lung tissue mainly relate to the destruction of the alveolar architecture, dense cellularity, and pulmonary fibrosis with myofibroblast proliferation and collagen deposition. These changes are the result of infection, mainly with virus variants from the first pandemic waves (Alpha to Delta). In addition, proper regulation of immune responses to pathogenic viral stimuli is critical for the control of and recovery from tissue/organ damage, including in the lungs. We can distinguish three main processes in the lungs during SARS-CoV-2 infection: damage or deficiency of the pulmonary surfactant, coagulation processes, and fibrosis. Understanding the molecular basis of these processes is extremely important in the context of elucidating all pathologies occurring after virus entry. In the present review, data on the abovementioned three biochemical processes that lead to pathological changes are gathered together and discussed. Systematization of the knowledge is necessary to explore the three key pathways in lung tissue after SARS-CoV-2 virus infection as a result of a prolonged and intense inflammatory process in the context of pulmonary fibrosis, hemostatic disorders, and disturbances in the structure and/or metabolism of the surfactant. Despite the fact that the new Omicron variant does not affect the lungs as much as the previous variants, we cannot ignore the fact that other new mutations and emerging variants will not cause serious damage to the lung tissue. In the future, this review will be helpful to stratify the risk of serious complications in patients, to improve COVID-19 treatment outcomes, and to select those who may develop complications before clinical manifestation.