{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'Jun'}
Rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton is a prerequisite for carcinoma cells to develop cellular protrusions, which are required for migration, invasion, and metastasis. Fascin is a key protein involved in actin bundling and is expressed in aggressive and invasive carcinomas. Additionally, fascin appears to be involved in tubulin-binding and microtubule rearrangement. Pharmacophoric-based in silico screening was performed to identify compounds with better fascin inhibitory properties than migrastatin, a gold-standard fascin inhibitor. We hypothesized that monastrol displays anti-migratory and anti-invasive properties via fascin blocking in colorectal cancer cell lines. Biophysical (thermofluor and ligand titration followed by fluorescence spectroscopy), biochemical (NMR), and cellular assays (MTT, invasion of human tissue), as well as animal model studies (zebrafish invasion) were performed to characterize the inhibitory effect of monastrol on fascin activity. In silico analysis revealed that monastrol is a potential fascin-binding compound. Biophysical and biochemical assays demonstrated that monastrol binds to fascin and interferes with its actin-bundling activity. Cell culture studies, including a 3D human myoma disc model, showed that monastrol inhibited fascin-driven cytoplasmic protrusions as well as invasion. In silico, confocal microscopy, and immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated that monastrol disrupted fascin-tubulin interactions. These anti-invasive effects were confirmed in vivo. In silico confocal microscopy and immunoprecipitation assays were carried out to test whether monastrol disrupted the fascin-tubulin interaction. This study reports, for the first time, the in vitro and in vivo anti-invasive properties of monastrol in colorectal tumor cells. The number and types of interactions suggest potential binding of monastrol across actin and tubulin sites on fascin, which could be valuable for the development of antitumor therapies.