{'Year': '2021', 'Month': 'Dec'}
No large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of psychosis have been conducted in Mexico or Latin America to date. Schizophrenia and bipolar disorder in particular have been found to be highly heritable and genetically influenced. However, understanding of the biological basis of psychosis in Latin American populations is limited as previous genomic studies have almost exclusively relied on participants of Northern European ancestry. With the goal of expanding knowledge on the genomic basis of psychotic disorders within the Mexican population, the National Institute of Psychiatry Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz (INPRFM), the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, and the Broad Institute's Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research launched the Neuropsychiatric Genetics Research of Psychosis in Mexican Populations (NeuroMex) project to collect and analyze case-control psychosis samples from 5 states across Mexico. This article describes the planned sample collection and GWAS protocol for the NeuroMex study. The 4-year study will span from April 2018 to 2022 and aims to recruit 9,208 participants: 4,604 cases and 4,604 controls. Study sites across Mexico were selected to ensure collected samples capture the genomic diversity within the Mexican population. Blood samples and phenotypic data will be collected during the participant interview process and will contribute to the development of a local biobank in Mexico. DNA extraction will be done locally and genetic analysis will take place at the Broad Institute in Cambridge, MA. We will collect extensive phenotypic information using several clinical scales. All study materials including phenotypic instruments utilized are openly available in Spanish and English. The described study represents a long-term collaboration of a number of institutions from across Mexico and the Boston area, including clinical psychiatrists, clinical researchers, computational biologists, and managers at the 3 collaborating institutions. The development of relevant data management, quality assurance, and analysis plans are the primary considerations in this protocol article. Extensive management and analysis processes were developed for both the phenotypic and genetic data collected. Capacity building, partnerships, and training between and among the collaborating institutions are intrinsic components to this study and its long-term success.