{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Feb', 'Day': '01'}
Glia cells are essential for brain functioning during development, aging and disease. However, the role of astroglia plays during brain development is quite different from the role played in the adult lesioned brain. Therefore, a deeper understanding of pathomechanisms underlying astroglia activity in the aging brain and cerebrovascular diseases is essential to guide the development of new therapeutic strategies. To this end, this review provides a comparison between the transcriptomic activity of astroglia cells during development, aging and neurodegenerative diseases, including cerebral ischemia. During fetal brain development, astrocytes and microglia often affect the same developmental processes such as neuro-/gliogenesis, angiogenesis, axonal outgrowth, synaptogenesis, and synaptic pruning. In the adult brain astrocytes are a critical player in the synapse remodeling by mediating synapse elimination while microglia activity has been associated with changes in synaptic plasticity and remove cell debris by constantly sensing the environment. However, in the lesioned brain astrocytes proliferate and play essential functions with regard to energy supply to the neurons, neurotransmission and buildup of a protective scar isolating the lesion site from the surroundings. Inflammation, neurodegeneration, or loss of brain homeostasis induce changes in microglia gene expression, morphology, and function, generally referred to as "primed" microglia. These changes in gene expression are characterized by an enrichment of phagosome, lysosome, and antigen presentation signaling pathways and is associated with an up-regulation of genes encoding cell surface receptors. In addition, primed microglia are characterized by upregulation of a network of genes in response to interferon gamma. <i>Conclusion</i>. A comparison of astroglia cells transcriptomic activity during brain development, aging and neurodegenerative disorders might provide us with new therapeutic strategies with which to protect the aging brain and improve clinical outcome.