{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Sep', 'Day': '25'}
Balancing the competing demands of phagolysosomal degradation and autophagy is a significant challenge for phagocytic tissues. Yet how this plasticity is accomplished in health and disease is poorly understood. In the retina, circadian phagocytosis and degradation of photoreceptor outer segments by the postmitotic retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) are essential for healthy vision. Disrupted autophagy due to mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) overactivation in the RPE is associated with blinding macular degenerations; however, outer segment degradation is unaffected in these diseases, indicating that distinct mechanisms regulate these clearance mechanisms. Here, using advanced imaging and mouse models, we identify optineurin as a key regulator that tunes phagocytosis and lysosomal capacity to meet circadian demands and helps prioritize outer segment clearance by the RPE in macular degenerations. High-resolution live-cell imaging implicates optineurin in scissioning outer segment tips prior to engulfment, analogous to microglial trogocytosis of neuronal processes. Optineurin is essential for recruiting light chain 3 (LC3), which anchors outer segment phagosomes to microtubules and facilitates phagosome maturation and fusion with lysosomes. This dynamically activates transcription factor EB (TFEB) to induce lysosome biogenesis in an mTOR-independent, transient receptor potential-mucolipin 1 (TRPML1)-dependent manner. RNA-seq analyses show that expression of TFEB target genes temporally tracks with optineurin recruitment and that lysosomal and autophagy genes are controlled by distinct transcriptional programs in the RPE. The unconventional plasma membrane-to-nucleus signaling mediated by optineurin ensures outer segment degradation under conditions of impaired autophagy in macular degeneration models. Independent regulation of these critical clearance mechanisms would help safeguard the metabolic fitness of the RPE throughout the organismal lifespan.