{'Year': '2023'}
Humans operating in extreme environments often conduct their operations at the edges of the limits of human performance. Sometimes, they are required to push these limits to previously unattained levels. As a result, their margins for error in execution are much smaller than that found in the general public. These same small margins for error that impact execution may also impact risk, safety, health, and even survival. Thus, humans operating in extreme environments have a need for greater refinement in their preparation, training, fitness, and medical care. Precision medicine (PM) is uniquely suited to address the needs of those engaged in these extreme operations because of its depth of molecular analysis, derived precision countermeasures, and ability to match each individual (and his or her specific molecular phenotype) with any given operating context (environment). Herein, we present an overview of a systems approach to PM in extreme environments, which affords clinicians one method to contextualize the inputs, processes, and outputs that can form the basis of a formal practice. For the sake of brevity, this overview is focused on molecular dynamics, while providing only a brief introduction to the also important physiologic and behavioral phenotypes in PM. Moreover, rather than a full review, it highlights important concepts, while using only selected citations to illustrate those concepts. It further explores, by demonstration, the basic principles of using functionally characterized molecular networks to guide the practical application of PM in extreme environments. At its core, PM in extreme environments is about attention to incremental gains and losses in molecular network efficiency that can scale to produce notable changes in health and performance. The aim of this overview is to provide a conceptual overview of one approach to PM in extreme environments, coupled with a selected suite of practical considerations for molecular profiling and countermeasures.