{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'Mar', 'Day': '08'}
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a rare inherited disease with the potential to affect virtually every organ system. Clinical presentation is age- and partly sex-dependent and varies broadly with respect to disease manifestations including treatment-refractory epilepsy, intellectual disability and TSC-associated neuropsychiatric disorders, chronic kidney disease or progressive lung function decline. Given the complexity of this disease, multidisciplinary care in specialized TSC centres is recommended. We aimed to elucidate the state of knowledge of patients/caregivers and physicians on individual disease manifestations. We further examined whether the association to a TSC centre has an impact on the comprehensive consideration of potential disease manifestations. Therefore, a survey was performed in a cohort of German TSC patients and their physicians. Complete information was available for 94 patients with a median age of 18 years [range 1-55] and a sex distribution of 53.2% (male): 48.8% (female). Using almost identical questionnaires for patients/caregivers and their respective physician, there was a good correlation for disease assessments associated with relevant morbidity and mortality like epilepsy, renal angiomyolipoma, cardiac rhabdomyomas or intellectual disability. Correlation was moderate for several neuropsychiatric disorders and only poor for hypomelanotic macules, dental pits or retinal achromic patches. Estimation of overall disease severity using a numeric rating scale correlated highly significantly (Pearson correlation coefficient = 0.767; p < 0.001) between patients/caregivers and physicians. In general, physicians more likely quoted items as 'unknown' than patients (822 answers vs. 435 answers in the respective groups). Questionnaires completed by physicians who were associated with a specialized TSC centre declared a significantly lower proportion of items as unknown (mean 8.7% vs. 20.5%; p < 0.001). These findings indicate that patients treated by specialized TSC centres seem to obtain a more comprehensive surveillance. Furthermore, it shows that there were reasonable surveillance strategies in general and sufficient patient/caregiver interaction and education in the examined cohort. However, for the most prominent disease characteristics there was a good awareness within both the patients/caregivers and the physicians group.