{'Year': '2022', 'Month': 'Feb', 'Day': '12'}
The process of clinical pharmacogenetics implementation depends on patients' and general population's perceptions. To date, no study has been published addressing Spanish patients' opinions on pharmacogenetic testing, the availability of the results, and the need for signing informed consent. In this work, we contacted 146 patients that had been previously genotyped at our laboratory and 46 healthy volunteers that had participated in a bioequivalence clinical trial at the Clinical Pharmacology Department of Hospital Universitario de La Princesa and consented to pharmacogenetic testing for research purposes. From the latter, 108 and 34, respectively, responded to the questionnaire (i.e., a response rate of 74%); Participants were scheduled for a face-to-face, telephone, or videoconference interview and were asked a total of 27 questions in Spanish. Great or almost complete acceptance of pharmacogenetic testing was observed (99.3%), age and university education level being the main predictors of acceptance rates and understanding (multivariate analysis, <i>p</i> = 0.004, R<sup>2</sup> = 0.17, age being inversely proportional to acceptance rates and understanding and university level being related to higher acceptance rates and understanding compared to other education levels). Mixed perceptions were observed on the requirement of written informed consent (55.6% in favor); therefore, it seems recommendable to continue requesting it for the upcoming years until more perceptions are collected. The majority of participants (95.8%) preferred storing pharmacogenetic results in medical records rather than in electronic sources (55.6%) and highly agreed with the possibility of carrying their results on a portable card (91.5%). Patients agreed to broad genetic testing, including biomarkers unrelated to their disease (93.7%) or with little clinically relevant evidence (94.4%). Patients apparently rely on clinician's or pharmacogeneticist's interpretation and seem, therefore, open to the generation of ethically challenging information. Finally, although most patients (68.3%) agreed with universal population testing, some were reluctant, probably due to the related costs and sustainability of the Spanish Health System. This was especially evident in the group of patients who were older and with a likely higher proportion of pensioners.