{'Year': '2022', 'Month': 'Aug'}
Chemical or drug treatments are successfully used to treat parasitic nematode infections that impact human, animal and plant health. Many of these exert their effects through modifying neural function underpinning behaviours essential for parasite viability. Selectivity against the parasite may be achieved through distinct pharmacological properties of the parasite nervous system, as exemplified by the success of the ivermectin which target a glutamate-gated chloride channel found only in invertebrates. Despite the success of the ivermectins, emerging resistance and concerns around eco-toxicity are driving the search for new nematocidal chemicals or drugs. Here, we describe the potential of a 5-HT-gated chloride channel MOD-1, which is involved in vital parasite behaviours with constrained distribution in the invertebrate phyla. This ion channel has potential pharmacophores that could be targeted by new nematocidal chemicals and drugs. We have developed a microtiter based bioassay for MOD-1 pharmacology based on its ectopic expression in the Caenorhabditis elegans essential neuron M4. We have termed this technology 'PhaGeM4' for 'Pharmacogenetic targeting of M4 neuron'. Exposure of transgenic worms harbouring ectopically expressed MOD-1 to 5-HT results in developmental arrest. By additional expression of a fluorescence marker in body wall muscle to monitor growth we demonstrate that this assay is suitable for the identification of receptor agonists and antagonists. Indeed, the developmental progression is a robustly quantifiable bioassay that resolves MOD-1 activation by quipazine, 5-carboxyamidotryptamine and fluoxetine and highlight methiothepin as a potent antagonist. This assay has the intrinsic ability to highlight compounds with optimal bioavailability and furthermore to filter out off-target effects. It can be extended to the investigation of other classes of membrane receptors and modulators of neuronal excitation. This approach based on heterologous modulation of the essential M4 neuron function offers a route to discover new effective and selective anthelmintics potentially less confounded by disruptive environmental impact.