{'Year': '2021', 'Month': 'Oct'}
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is an autosomal-dominant hereditary condition associated with germline mutations in the adenomatous polyposis coli gene. Patient management involves prophylactic surgery and intensive life-long endoscopic surveillance. Diet is a major concern for patients with FAP, who are generally free of symptoms before surgery but tend to have issues related to bowel function postoperatively. We hypothesized that a low-inflammatory diet based on the principles and recipes of the Mediterranean diet would reduce markers of local and systemic inflammation. Twenty-eight patients with FAP over 18 years of age who underwent rectum-sparing prophylactic colectomy and were included in our surveillance program participated in a pilot dietary intervention study. Blood and stool samples at baseline (T0), at the end of the dietary intervention (T1, three months), and at the end of the study (T2, six months after T0) were collected. Gastrointestinal inflammation markers including fecal calprotectin, cyclooxygenase-2, and 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase were evaluated. Serum calprotectin, insulin, insulin-like growth factor-1, C-reactive protein, and glycated hemoglobin were also assessed. Significant changes in serum calprotectin, insulin, and insulin-like growth factor-1 levels occurred over time. Borderline significant changes were observed in the neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio. These changes were noticeable immediately at the end of the 3-month active dietary intervention (T1). A significant increase in 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase expression in the normal crypts of matched samples was also observed between T0 and T2. This pilot study supports the hypothesis that a low-inflammatory diet can modulate gastrointestinal markers of inflammation in individuals with FAP. PREVENTION RELEVANCE: Cancer is known to be related to inflammatory conditions. This study suggests that anti-inflammatory dietary intervention may potentially prevent adenomas and cancer in FAP patients by reducing systemic and tissue inflammatory indices.