{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Feb', 'Day': '17'}
Platelets play a crucial role in cancer and thrombosis. However, the receptor-ligand repertoire mediating prostate cancer (PCa) cell-platelet interactions and ensuing consequences have not been fully elucidated. Microvilli emanating from the plasma membrane of PCa cell lines (RC77 T/E, MDA PCa 2b) directly contacted individual platelets and platelet aggregates. PCa cell-platelet interactions were associated with calcium mobilization in platelets, and translocation of P-selectin and integrin α<sub>IIb</sub>β<sub>3</sub> onto the platelet surface. PCa cell-platelet interactions reciprocally promoted PCa cell invasion and apoptotic resistance, and these events were insensitive to androgen receptor blockade by bicalutamide. PCa cells were exceedingly sensitive to activation by platelets in vitro, occurring at a PCa cell:platelet coculture ratio as low as 1:10 (whereas PCa patient blood contains 1:2,000,000 per ml). Conditioned medium from cocultures stimulated PCa cell invasion but not apoptotic resistance nor platelet aggregation. Candidate transmembrane signaling proteins responsible for PCa cell-platelet oncogenic events were identified by RNA-Seq and broadly divided into 4 major categories: (1) integrin-ligand, (2) EPH receptor-ephrin, (3) immune checkpoint receptor-ligand, and (4) miscellaneous receptor-ligand interactions. Based on antibody neutralization and small molecule inhibitor assays, PCa cell-stimulated calcium mobilization in platelets was found to be mediated by a fibronectin1 (FN1)-α<sub>IIb</sub>β<sub>3</sub> signaling axis. Platelet-stimulated PCa cell invasion was facilitated by a CD55-adhesion G protein coupled receptor E5 (ADGRE5) axis, with contribution from platelet cytokines CCL3L1 and IL32. Platelet-stimulated PCa cell apoptotic resistance relied on ephrin-EPH receptor and lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)-LPA receptor (LPAR) signaling. Of participating signaling partners, FN1 and LPAR3 overexpression was observed in PCa specimens compared to normal prostate, while high expression of CCR1 (CCL3L1 receptor), EPHA1 and LPAR5 in PCa was associated with poor patient survival. These findings emphasize that non-overlapping receptor-ligand pairs participate in oncogenesis and thrombosis, highlighting the complexity of any contemplated clinical intervention strategy.