{'Year': '2021', 'Month': 'Nov', 'Day': '23'}
The review includes studies dated 2011-2021 presenting the newest information on voriconazole (VCZ), mycophenolic acid (MPA), and vancomycin (VAN) therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) in children. The need of TDM in pediatric patients has been emphasized by providing the information on the differences in the drugs pharmacokinetics. TDM of VCZ should be mandatory for all pediatric patients with invasive fungal infections (IFIs). Wide inter- and intrapatient variability in VCZ pharmacokinetics cause achieving and maintaining therapeutic concentration during therapy challenging in this population. Demonstrated studies showed, in most cases, VCZ plasma concentrations to be subtherapeutic, despite the updated dosages recommendations. Only repeated TDM can predict drug exposure and individualizing dosing in antifungal therapy in children. In children treated with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), similarly as in adult patients, the role of TDM for MMF active form, MPA, has not been well established and is undergoing continued debate. Studies on the MPA TDM have been carried out in children after renal transplantation, other organ transplantation such as heart, liver, or intestine, in children after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation or cord blood transplantation, and in children with lupus, nephrotic syndrome, Henoch-Schönlein purpura, and other autoimmune diseases. MPA TDM is based on the area under the concentration-time curve; however, the proposed values differ according to the treatment indication, and other approaches such as pharmacodynamic and pharmacogenetic biomarkers have been proposed. VAN is a bactericidal agent that requires TDM to prevent an acute kidney disease. The particular group of patients is the pediatric one. For this group, the general recommendations of the dosing may not be valid due to the change of the elimination rate and volume of distribution between the subjects. The other factor is the variability among patients that concerns the free fraction of the drug. It may be caused by both the patients' population and sample preconditioning. Although VCZ, MMF, and VAN have been applied in pediatric patients for many years, there are still few issues to be solve regarding TDM of these drugs to ensure safe and effective treatment. Except for pharmacokinetic approach, pharmacodynamics and pharmacogenetics have been more often proposed for TDM.