{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'May', 'Day': '22'}
Hydrolases represent an essential class of enzymes indispensable for the metabolism of various clinically essential medications. Individuals exhibit marked differences in the expression and activation of hydrolases, resulting in significant variability in the pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of drugs metabolized by these enzymes. The regulation of hydrolase expression and activity involves both genetic polymorphisms and nongenetic factors. This review examines the current understanding of genetic and nongenetic regulators of six clinically significant hydrolases, including Carboxylesterase 1 (CES1), Carboxylesterase 2 (CES2), Arylacetamide Deacetylase (AADAC), Paraoxonase 1 (PON1), Paraoxonase 3 (PON3), and Cathepsin A (CTSA). We explore genetic variants linked to the expression and activity of the hydrolases and their effects on the PK and PD of their substrate drugs. Regarding nongenetic regulators, we focus on the inhibitors and inducers of these enzymes. Additionally, we examine the developmental expression patterns and gender differences in the hydrolases when pertinent information was available. Many genetic and nongenetic regulators were found to be associated with the expression and activity of the hydrolases and PK and PD. However, hydrolases remain generally understudied compared to other drug-metabolizing enzymes, such as cytochrome P450s. The clinical significance of genetic and nongenetic regulators has not yet been firmly established for the majority of hydrolases. Comprehending the mechanisms that underpin the regulation of these enzymes holds the potential to refine therapeutic regimens, thereby enhancing the efficacy and safety of drugs metabolized by the hydrolases. <b>Significance Statement</b> Hydrolases play a crucial role in the metabolism of numerous clinically important medications. Genetic polymorphisms and nongenetic regulators can affect hydrolases' expression and activity, consequently influencing the exposure and clinical outcomes of hydrolase substrate drugs. A comprehensive understanding of hydrolase regulation can refine therapeutic regimens, ultimately enhancing the efficacy and safety of drugs metabolized by the enzymes.