{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Oct'}
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive loss of motor neurons in the spinal cord. Although the disease's pathophysiological mechanism remains poorly understood, multifactorial mechanisms affecting motor neuron loss converge to worsen the disease. Although two FDA-approved drugs, riluzole and edaravone, targeting excitotoxicity and oxidative stress, respectively, are available, their efficacies are limited to extending survival by only a few months. Here, we developed combinatorial drugs targeting multifactorial mechanisms underlying key components in ALS disease progression. Using data analysis based on the genetic information of patients with ALS-derived cells and pharmacogenomic data of the drugs, a combination of nebivolol and donepezil (nebivolol-donepezil) was identified for ALS therapy. Here, nebivolol-donepezil markedly reduced the levels of cytokines in the microglial cell line, inhibited nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) nucleus translocation in the HeLa cell and substantially protected against excitotoxicity-induced neuronal loss by regulating the PI3K-Akt pathway. Nebivolol-donepezil significantly promoted the differentiation of neural progenitor cells (NPC) into motor neurons. Furthermore, we verified the low dose efficacy of nebivolol-donepezil on multiple indices corresponding to the quality of life of patients with ALS in vivo using SOD1<sup>G93A</sup> mice. Nebivolol-donepezil delayed motor function deterioration and halted motor neuronal loss in the spinal cord. Drug administration effectively suppressed muscle atrophy by mitigating the proportion of smaller myofibers and substantially reducing phospho-neurofilament heavy chain (pNF-H) levels in the serum, a promising ALS biomarker. High-dose nebivolol-donepezil significantly prolonged survival and delayed disease onset compared with vehicle-treated mice. These results indicate that the combination of nebivolol-donepezil efficiently prevents ALS disease progression, benefiting the patients' quality of life and life expectancy.