{'Year': '2023', 'Month': 'Sep', 'Day': '19'}
Breast cancer (BC) is not only a mass of malignant cells but also a systemic inflammatory disease. BC pro-tumorigenic inflammation has been shown to promote immune evasion and provoke BC progression. The NOD-like receptor (NLR) family pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome is activated when pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) sense danger signals such as calreticulin (CALR) from damaged/dying cells, leading to the secretion of interleukin-1β (IL-1β). CALR is a novel BC biological marker, and its high levels are associated with advanced tumors. NLRP3 expression is strongly correlated with an elevated proliferative index Ki67, BC progression, metastasis, and recurrence in patients with hormone receptor-positive (HR+) and triple-negative BC (TNBC). Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) secrete high levels of IL-1β promoting endocrine resistance in HR+ BC. Recently, an immunosuppressive soluble form of programmed death ligand 1 (sPD-L1) has been identified as a novel prognostic biomarker in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) patients. Interestingly, IL-1β induces sPD-L1 release. BC Patients with elevated IL-1β and sPD-L1 levels show significantly short progression-free survival. For the first time, this study aims to investigate the inhibitory impact of thymoquinone (TQ) on CALR, the NLRP3 pathway and sPD-L1 in HR+ and TNBC. Blood samples were collected from 45 patients with BC. The effect of differing TQ concentrations for different durations on the expression of CALR, NLRP3 complex components and IL-1β as well as the protein levels of sPD-L1 and IL-1β were investigated in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and TAMs of TNBC and HR+ BC patients, respectively. The findings showed that TQ significantly downregulated the expression of CALR, NLRP3 components and IL-1β together with the protein levels of secreted IL-1β and sPD-L1. The current findings demonstrated novel immunomodulatory effects of TQ, highlighting its potential role not only as an excellent adjuvant but also as a possible immunotherapeutic agent in HR+ and TNBC patients.