{'Year': '2024', 'Month': 'May'}
Fluoropyrimidine chemotherapy is a primary component of many solid tumor treatment regimens, particularly those for gastrointestinal malignancies. Approximately one-third of patients receiving fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapies experience serious adverse effects. This risk is substantially higher in patients carrying DPYD genetic variants, which cause reduced fluoropyrimidine metabolism and inactivation (ie, dihydropyridine dehydrogenase [DPD] deficiency). Despite the known relationship between DPD deficiency and severe toxicity risk, including drug-related fatalities, pretreatment DPYD testing is not standard of care in the United States. We developed an in-house DPYD genotyping test that detects 5 clinically actionable variants associated with DPD deficiency, and genotyped 827 patients receiving fluoropyrimidines, of which 49 (6%) were identified as heterozygous carriers. We highlight 3 unique cases: (1) a patient with a false-negative result from a commercial laboratory that only tested for the c.1905 + 1G>A (*2A) variant, (2) a White patient in whom the c.557A>G variant (typically observed in people of African ancestry) was detected, and (3) a patient with the rare c.1679T>G (*13) variant. Lastly, we evaluated which DPYD variants are detected by commercial laboratories offering DPYD genotyping in the United States and found 6 of 13 (46%) did not test for all 5 variants included on our panel. We estimated that 20.4% to 81.6% of DPYD heterozygous carriers identified on our panel would have had a false-negative result if tested by 1 of these 6 laboratories. The sensitivity and negative predictive value of the diagnostic tests from these laboratories ranged from 18.4% to 79.6% and 95.1% to 98.7%, respectively. These cases underscore the importance of comprehensive DPYD genotyping to accurately identify patients with DPD deficiency who may require lower fluoropyrimidine doses to mitigate severe toxicities and hospitalizations. Clinicians should be aware of test limitations and variability in variant detection by commercial laboratories, and seek assistance by pharmacogenetic experts or available resources for test selection and result interpretation.